AOS-CX 10.07 CoPP Guide

6100 Switch Series

Part Number: 5200-7840
Published: April 2021
Edition: 1

Copyright Information

© Copyright 2021 Hewlett Packard Enterprise Development LP.

Open Source Code

This product includes code licensed under the GNU General Public License, the GNU Lesser General Public
License, and/or certain other open source licenses. A complete machine-readable copy of the source code
corresponding to such code is available upon request. This offer is valid to anyone in receipt of this
information and shall expire three years following the date of the final distribution of this product version
by Hewlett Packard Enterprise Company. To obtain such source code, send a check or money order in the
amount of US $10.00 to:

Hewlett Packard Enterprise Company
6280 America Center Drive
San Jose, CA 95002
USA

Notices

The information contained herein is subject to change without notice. The only warranties for Hewlett
Packard Enterprise products and services are set forth in the express warranty statements accompanying
such products and services. Nothing herein should be construed as constituting an additional warranty.
Hewlett Packard Enterprise shall not be liable for technical or editorial errors or omissions contained herein.

Confidential computer software. Valid license from Hewlett Packard Enterprise required for possession, use,
or copying. Consistent with FAR 12.211 and 12.212, Commercial Computer Software, Computer Software
Documentation, and Technical Data for Commercial Items are licensed to the U.S. Government under
vendor's standard commercial license.

Links to third-party websites take you outside the Hewlett Packard Enterprise website. Hewlett Packard
Enterprise has no control over and is not responsible for information outside the Hewlett Packard
Enterprise website.

| 2

Contents
Contents
| Contents                            |                                |          |           | 3   |
| ----------------------------------- | ------------------------------ | -------- | --------- | --- |
| About                               | this                           | document |           | 4   |
| Applicableproducts                  |                                |          |           | 4   |
| Latestversionavailableonline        |                                |          |           | 4   |
| Commandsyntaxnotationconventions    |                                |          |           | 4   |
| Abouttheexamples                    |                                |          |           | 5   |
| Identifyingswitchportsandinterfaces |                                |          |           | 5   |
| Control                             | Plane                          | Policing | (CoPP)    | 7   |
| Overview                            |                                |          |           | 7   |
| ConfiguringCoPP                     |                                |          |           | 7   |
|                                     | Example                        |          |           | 7   |
| Actualratesinhardware               |                                |          |           | 8   |
| CoPPcommands                        |                                |          |           | 8   |
|                                     | Classesoftraffic               |          |           | 8   |
|                                     | applycopp-policy               |          |           | 9   |
|                                     | class                          |          |           | 10  |
|                                     | clearcopp-policystatistics     |          |           | 11  |
|                                     | copp-policy                    |          |           | 11  |
|                                     | default-class                  |          |           | 12  |
|                                     | resetcopp-policy               |          |           | 13  |
|                                     | showcopp-policy                |          |           | 14  |
|                                     | showcopp-policyfactory-default |          |           | 15  |
|                                     | showcopp-policystatistics      |          |           | 16  |
|                                     | showtechcopp                   |          |           | 18  |
| Support                             | and                            | Other    | Resources | 19  |
| AccessingArubaSupport               |                                |          |           | 19  |
| AccessingUpdates                    |                                |          |           | 19  |
|                                     | ArubaSupportPortal             |          |           | 19  |
|                                     | MyNetworking                   |          |           | 20  |
| WarrantyInformation                 |                                |          |           | 20  |
| RegulatoryInformation               |                                |          |           | 20  |
| DocumentationFeedback               |                                |          |           | 20  |
3
AOS-CX10.07CoPPGuide| 6100SwitchSeries

Chapter 1
About this document
| About | this document |     |     |
| ----- | ------------- | --- | --- |
ThisdocumentdescribesfeaturesoftheAOS-CXnetworkoperatingsystem.Itisintendedforadministrators
responsibleforinstalling,configuring,andmanagingArubaswitchesonanetwork.
| Applicable | products |     |     |
| ---------- | -------- | --- | --- |
Thisdocumentappliestothefollowingproducts:
Aruba6100SwitchSeries(JL675A,JL676A,JL677A,JL678A,JL679A)
n
| Latest | version | available | online |
| ------ | ------- | --------- | ------ |
Updatestothisdocumentcanoccurafterinitialpublication.Forthelatestversionsofproduct
documentation,seethelinksprovidedinSupportandOtherResources.
| Command    | syntax | notation | conventions |
| ---------- | ------ | -------- | ----------- |
| Convention |        | Usage    |             |
example-text Identifiescommandsandtheiroptionsandoperands,codeexamples,
filenames,pathnames,andoutputdisplayedinacommandwindow.Itemsthat
appearliketheexampletextinthepreviouscolumnaretobeenteredexactly
asshownandarerequiredunlessenclosedinbrackets([ ]).
example-text Incodeandscreenexamples,indicatestextenteredbyauser.
Anyofthefollowing: Identifiesaplaceholder—suchasaparameteroravariable—thatyoumust
n <example-text> substitutewithanactualvalueinacommandorincode:
<example-text>
n
|     |     | n Foroutputformatswhereitalictextcannotbedisplayed,variablesare |     |
| --- | --- | --------------------------------------------------------------- | --- |
n example-text
enclosedinanglebrackets(< >).Substitutethetext—includingthe
n example-text
enclosinganglebrackets—withanactualvalue.
Foroutputformatswhereitalictextcanbedisplayed,variablesmight
n
ormightnotbeenclosedinanglebrackets.Substitutethetext
includingtheenclosinganglebrackets,ifany,withanactualvalue.
| Verticalbar.AlogicalORthatseparatesmultipleitemsfromwhichyoucan
chooseonlyone.
Anyspacesthatareoneithersideoftheverticalbarareincludedfor
readabilityandarenotarequiredpartofthecommandsyntax.
{ } Braces.Indicatesthatatleastoneoftheencloseditemsisrequired.
| [ ] |     | Brackets.Indicatesthattheencloseditemoritemsareoptional. |     |
| --- | --- | -------------------------------------------------------- | --- |
4
| AOS-CX10.07CoPPGuide| | 6100SwitchSeries |     |     |
| --------------------- | ---------------- | --- | --- |

Convention

… or

...

Usage

Ellipsis:

n In code and screen examples, a vertical or horizontal ellipsis indicates an

omission of information.

n In syntax using brackets and braces, an ellipsis indicates items that can be

repeated. When an item followed by ellipses is enclosed in brackets, zero

or more items can be specified.

About the examples
Examples in this document are representative and might not match your particular switch or environment.

The slot and port numbers in this document are for illustration only and might be unavailable on your
switch.

Understanding the CLI prompts

When illustrating the prompts in the command line interface (CLI), this document uses the generic term
switch, instead of the host name of the switch. For example:
switch>

The CLI prompt indicates the current command context. For example:
switch>

Indicates the operator command context.

switch#

Indicates the manager command context.

switch(CONTEXT-NAME)#

Indicates the configuration context for a feature. For example:

switch(config-if)#

Identifies the interface context.

Variable information in CLI prompts

In certain configuration contexts, the prompt may include variable information. For example, when in the
VLAN configuration context, a VLAN number appears in the prompt:
switch(config-vlan-100)#

When referring to this context, this document uses the syntax:
switch(config-vlan-<VLAN-ID>)#

Where <VLAN-ID> is a variable representing the VLAN number.

Identifying switch ports and interfaces
Physical ports on the switch and their corresponding logical software interfaces are identified using the
format:
member/slot/port

On the 6100 Switch Series

n member: Always 1. VSF is not supported on this switch.

n slot: Always 1. This is not a modular switch, so there are no slots.

n port: Physical number of a port on the switch.

About this document | 5

For example, the logical interface 1/1/4 in software is associated with physical port 4 on the switch.

AOS-CX 10.07 CoPP Guide | 6100 Switch Series

6

Control Plane Policing (CoPP)

Chapter 2

Control Plane Policing (CoPP)

Overview
CoPP provides a way for administrators to protect the management processor on the switch from high
packet loads (generated by malicious or nonmalicious sources) that might interfere with its ability to keep
data plane traffic flowing. For example, a denial of service attack can result in excessive traffic that would
slow down the management processor and negatively affect switch throughput.

A CoPP policy is composed of one or more classes. Each class defines one or more target protocols and how
their traffic is managed. Every policy also has a default class to regulate packets that do not match any other
class. The following actions can be applied for all packets matching a class:

n Drop the packets. (Excluding the default class.)

n Set the processing priority in the range 0 to 6 (0 - highest priority and 6 - lowest priority).

n Set the maximum data rate in packets per second (pps) at which each line module can send packets to the

management processor.

Up to 32 CoPP policies can be defined, but only one can be active on the switch at a time.

A CoPP policy must always be active on the switch. By default, the switch has a CoPP policy named default
which is automatically applied at first boot.

When the switch is rebooted, the CoPP policy that was actively applied to the switch before the reboot
occurred will be applied if it was saved to the startup configuration with the copy running-config startup-
config command.

Configuring CoPP

Procedure

1. Configure the default CoPP policy, edit an existing policy, or create a policy with the command copp-

policy.

2. Add, edit, or remove classes in the policy with the command class.

3.

If the policy is not the active policy on the switch, apply it with the command apply copp-policy.
(Changes made to an active policy take effect immediately and do not need to be applied.)

4. Review the CoPP policy configuration settings with the command show copp-policy.

Example

This example creates the following configuration:

n Defines a new policy named My_CoppPolicy.

n Adds two classes to the policy.

n Activates the policy.

n Displays policy configuration settings.

AOS-CX 10.07 CoPP Guide | 6100 Switch Series

7

| switch(config)# |     | copp-policy |     | My_CoppPolicy |     |     |     |
| --------------- | --- | ----------- | --- | ------------- | --- | --- | --- |
switch(config-copp)#
|                       |       |             | class    | igmp          | priority      | 6 rate 5000       |          |
| --------------------- | ----- | ----------- | -------- | ------------- | ------------- | ----------------- | -------- |
| switch(config-copp)#  |       |             | class    | lacp          | priority      | 2 rate 2000       |          |
| switch(config-copp)#  |       |             | exit     |               |               |                   |          |
| switch(config)#       |       | apply       |          | copp-policy   | My_CoppPolicy |                   |          |
| switch(config)#       |       | exit        |          |               |               |                   |          |
| switch#               | show  | copp-policy |          | My_CoppPolicy |               |                   |          |
| class                 |       |             |          | drop priority | rate          | pps hardware      | rate pps |
| --------------------- |       |             |          | ---- -------- | --------      | ----------------- |          |
| igmp                  |       |             |          | 6             | 5000          | 5000              |          |
| lacp                  |       |             |          | 2             | 2000          | 2000              |          |
| default               |       |             |          | 1             | 6000          | 6000              |          |
| Actual                | rates | in          | hardware |               |               |                   |          |
Currently,theactualrateinhardwareisdeterminedbyamappingbasedontheconfiguredrate,shownby
thefollowingtableofthefirstnineactualrates.
Theprecedingtableshowsthefirstnineactualratesavailableinhardware.Higherratesareavailable.The
'show copp-policy statistics class <CLASS>'commandcanbeusedtoshowtheactualratein
hardwareforaspecificclass.The'show copp-policy <NAME>'commandcanbeusedtoshowtheactual
ratesforallclassesconfiguredinaspecificCoPPpolicy,ifthepolicyisactivelyapplied.
| CoPP    | commands |         |     |     |     |     |     |
| ------- | -------- | ------- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| Classes | of       | traffic |     |     |     |     |     |
Thedifferentclassesoftrafficthatcanbeindividuallyconfiguredare:
n arp-broadcast:AddressResolutionProtocolpacketswithabroadcastdestinationMACaddress.
n arp-unicast:AddressResolutionProtocolpacketswithaswitchsystemdestinationMACaddress.
n dhcp:DynamicHostConfigurationProtocolpackets.AlsoincludessnoopedDHCPpacketsifDHCP
snoopingisenabled.
n icmp-broadcast-ipv4:InternetControlMessageProtocolpacketswithabroadcastormulticast
destinationIPv4address.
n icmp-multicast-ipv6:InternetControlMessageProtocolpacketswithawell-knownmulticast
destinationIPv6address.
icmp-security-ipv6:IPv6InternetControlMessageProtocolpacketsinterceptedandinspected.
n
n icmp-unicast-ipv4:InternetControlMessageProtocolpacketswithadestinationIPv4addressowned
bytheswitch
icmp-unicast-ipv6:InternetControlMessageProtocolpacketswithadestinationIPv6addressowned
n
bytheswitch.
igmp:InternetGroupManagementProtocolpackets.
n
lacp:LinkAggregationControlProtocolpacketswiththedestinationMACaddress01:80:c2:00:00:02.
n
n lldp:LinkLayerDiscoveryProtocolpacketswiththedestinationMACaddress01:80:c2:00:00:0e.
n loop-protect:LoopProtectionpacketswiththedestinationMACaddress09:00:09:09:13:a6.
n manageability:UnicastIPpacketsaddressedtotheswitchforspecificprotocolsthatdonothavea
dedicatedCoPPclasslikeHTTP,SSH,RADIUS.
n mvrp:MultipleVLANRegistrationProtocolpacketswiththedestinationMACaddress01:80:c2:00:00:20
or01:80:c2:00:00:21
ControlPlanePolicing(CoPP)|8

n ntp: Network Time Protocol packets with a destination IP address owned by the switch.

n stp: Spanning Tree Protocol (STP) packets with the destination MAC address 01:80:c2:00:00:00 or Per-

VLAN Spanning Tree (PVST) packets with the destination MAC address 01:00:0c:cc:cc:cd.

n udld: Unidirectional Link Detection packets with the destination MAC address 01:00:0c:cc:cc:cc or

00:e0:52:00:00:00, or Cisco Discovery Protocol packets with the destination MAC address
01:00:0c:cc:cc:cc.

n unresolved-ip-unicast: Packets to be software forwarded by the management processor.

To regulate any other traffic destined for the CPU, every CoPP policy has a class named default that can
also be configured to regulate other traffic to the CPU or prevent other traffic from being delivered.

All IPsec traffic received by the CPU will be regulated by the ipsec class regardless of the encapsulated protocol.

apply copp-policy

Syntax

apply copp-policy { <NAME> | default }
no apply copp-policy <NAME>

Description

Applies a CoPP policy to the switch, replacing the policy that is in effect. There may be a brief interruption in
traffic flow to the management processor while the switch implements the change.

Enter the no apply copp-policy <NAME> command with the name of a CoPP policy to unapply a CoPP
policy and apply the default CoPP policy. This will only take effect if the specified policy is actively applied.
Since there must always be a CoPP policy applied, this command effectively attempts to replace the applied
CoPP policy with the default CoPP policy. The default CoPP policy cannot be unapplied using this command.

Command context

config

Parameters

<NAME>

Specifies the name of the policy to apply. Length: 1 to 64 characters.

default

Applies the default policy.

Authority

Administrators or local user group members with execution rights for this command.

Usage

If the new policy cannot be applied (for example, due to a lack of hardware resources), the previous policy
remains in effect. Use the show copp-policy command to determine which policy is in effect.

Examples

Applying a policy named My_CoppPolicy:

switch(config)# apply copp-policy My_CoppPolicy

AOS-CX 10.07 CoPP Guide | 6100 Switch Series

9

Applying the default policy:

switch(config)# apply copp-policy default

Unapplying a policy named My_CoppPolicy:

switch(config)# no apply copp-policy My_CoppPolicy

class

Syntax

class <CLASS> {drop | priority <PRIORITY> rate <RATE>}

no class <CLASS> {drop | priority <PRIORITY> rate <RATE>}

Description

Adds a class to a CoPP policy. If the class exists, the existing class is modified. Changes made to an active
(applied) policy take effect immediately.

When adding or modifying a class in an active policy, CoPP immediately activates the change on the switch.
In cases where insufficient hardware resources exist to support a class or its action, CoPP fails to activate the
changed class on the switch. When this failure occurs, the active configuration on the switch will be out of
sync with its definition. To diagnose and remedy this situation:

n Use the show copp-policy command to determine which classes are out of sync between the active

policy and its definition.

n Use the reset copp-policy command to synchronize the active policy with its definition. This
synchronization changes the classes in the definition to match the classes in the active policy.

The no form of this command removes the configuration for the class. Traffic for the class will be prioritized
and regulated using the factory default configuration for the class. Use the show copp-policy factory-
default command to display the factory default CoPP policy. To stop a class of traffic from reaching the
processor, set the class action to drop.

Command context

config-copp

Parameters

<CLASS>

Specifies the class to add or edit.

drop

Drop packets matching the selected class.

priority <PRIORITY>

Specifies the priority for packets matching the selected class. Range: 0 to 6.

rate <RATE>

Specifies the maximum rate, in packets per second (pps), for packets matching the selected class. Range:
25 to 99999.

Authority

Administrators or local user group members with execution rights for this command.

Control Plane Policing (CoPP) | 10

Examples
AddingaclasstohandleLACPtrafficwithpriorityof2andrateof2000:
switch(config-copp)#
|     |     | class lacp | priority | 2 rate 2000 |
| --- | --- | ---------- | -------- | ----------- |
ModifyingtheclasstodropLLDPpackets:
| switch(config-copp)# |     | class lldp | drop |     |
| -------------------- | --- | ---------- | ---- | --- |
RemovingtheclassthathandlesLLDPpackets.
| switch(config-copp)# |     | no class   | lldp |     |
| -------------------- | --- | ---------- | ---- | --- |
| clear copp-policy    |     | statistics |      |     |
Syntax
| clear copp-policy | statistics |     |     |     |
| ----------------- | ---------- | --- | --- | --- |
Description
ResetsstatisticsforallCoPPclassestozero.
Commandcontext
Operator(>)orManager(#)
Authority
OperatorsorAdministratorsorlocalusergroupmemberswithexecutionrightsforthiscommand.
Operatorscanexecutethiscommandfromtheoperatorcontext(>)only.
Examples
Displayingandthenresettingstatisticsforallclassesintheactivepolicy:
copp-policy
Syntax
| copp-policy    | {<NAME> | | default [revert]} |     |     |
| -------------- | ------- | ------------------- | --- | --- |
| no copp-policy | <NAME>  |                     |     |     |
Description
CreatesaCoPPpolicyandswitchestotheconfig-coppcontextforthepolicy.Or,ifthespecifiedpolicy
exists,switchestotheconfig-coppcontextforthepolicy.Apredefinedpolicy,nameddefault,contains
factorydefaultclassesandisappliedtotheswitchatfirststartup.Thispolicycannotbedeleted,butits
configurationcanbechanged.
ThenoformofthiscommandremovesaCoPPpolicy.Ifapolicyisactive(applied),itcannotberemoved.It
mustbereplacedwithanotherpolicybeforeitcanberemoved.
Commandcontext
config
AOS-CX10.07CoPPGuide|6100SwitchSeries 11

Parameters

<NAME>

Specifies the name of the policy to add or edit. Length: 1 to 64 characters. The name must not be a
substring of any of the following reserved words: default, factory-default, commands, configuration, or
statistics.

default

Specifies the default CoPP policy. Use this default policy to configure the default policy.

revert

Sets the default CoPP policy to its factory settings.

Authority

Administrators or local user group members with execution rights for this command.

Examples

Creating a policy named My_CoppPolicy:

switch(config)# copp-policy My_CoppPolicy
switch(config-copp)#

Removing a policy named My_CoppPolicy:

switch(config)# no copp-policy My_CoppPolicy

Setting the default policy to its factory settings:

switch(config)# copp-policy default revert

Unapplying the policy named My_CoppPolicy:

switch(config)# no apply copp-policy My_CoppPolicy

default-class

Syntax

default-class priority <PRIORITY> rate <RATE>

Description

Configures the default class that is automatically defined for all CoPP policies. The default class cannot be
removed, but its configuration can be changed. The default class is applied to traffic that does not match
any other class defined for a policy.

Command context

config-copp

Parameters

priority <PRIORITY>

Specifies the priority for packets matching the selected class. Range: 0 to 7.

Control Plane Policing (CoPP) | 12

rate <RATE>
Specifiesthemaximumrate,inpacketspersecond(pps),forpacketsmatchingtheselectedclass.Range:
25to99999.
Authority
Administratorsorlocalusergroupmemberswithexecutionrightsforthiscommand.
Example
Settingthedefaultclasstoapriorityof2andrateof2000:
| switch(config-copp)# |     | default-class |     | priority |     | 2 rate | 2000 |
| -------------------- | --- | ------------- | --- | -------- | --- | ------ | ---- |
reset copp-policy
Syntax
| reset copp-policy | { <NAME> |     | | default | }   |     |     |     |
| ----------------- | -------- | --- | --------- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
Description
ResetsanactiveCoPPpolicytomatchthesettingsthatarecurrentlyineffectfortheactivepolicyonthe
switch.Changesmadetotheactivepolicythatcouldnotbeactivatedareremovedfromtheactivepolicy.
WhentheswitchfailstoaddormodifyaclassinanactiveCoPPpolicy,itispossibletheactivepolicysettings
ontheswitchmaybeoutofsyncwiththosedefinedinthepolicy.
Commandcontext
config
Parameters
<NAME>
Specifiesthenameofthepolicytoreset.Length:1to64characters.
default
Resetsthedefaultpolicytomatchitsactivesettings.
Authority
Administratorsorlocalusergroupmemberswithexecutionrightsforthiscommand.
Examples
ResettingapolicynamedMy_CoppPolicy:
| switch# show          | copp-policy |       | My_CoppPolicy    |          |               |                   |          |
| --------------------- | ----------- | ----- | ---------------- | -------- | ------------- | ----------------- | -------- |
| class                 |             | drop  | priority         | rate     | pps           | hardware          | rate pps |
| --------------------- |             | ----  | --------         | -------- |               | ----------------- |          |
| igmp                  |             |       | 6                | 5000     |               | 5000              |          |
| lacp                  |             |       | 2                | 2000     |               | 2000              |          |
| default               |             |       | 1                | 6000     |               | 6000              |          |
| switch# config        | terminal    |       |                  |          |               |                   |          |
| switch(config)#       | copp-policy |       | My_CoppPolicy    |          |               |                   |          |
| switch(config-copp)#  |             | class | stp priority     |          | 4 rate        | 4000              |          |
| switch(config-copp)#  |             | do    | show copp-policy |          | My_CoppPolicy |                   |          |
| class                 |             | drop  | priority         | rate     | pps           | hardware          | rate pps |
| --------------------- |             | ----  | --------         | -------- |               | ----------------- |          |
AOS-CX10.07CoPPGuide|6100SwitchSeries 13

| igmp    |     | 6   | 5000 | 5000 |     |
| ------- | --- | --- | ---- | ---- | --- |
| lacp    |     | 2   | 2000 | 2000 |     |
| default |     | 1   | 6000 | 6000 |     |
% Warning: user-specified classes in CoPP policy My_CoppPolicy do not match
| active configuration. |     |     |     |     |     |
| --------------------- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
switch(config-copp)# do show copp-policy My_CoppPolicy configuration
| class                 |     | drop priority | rate     | pps applied |     |
| --------------------- | --- | ------------- | -------- | ----------- | --- |
| --------------------- |     | ---- -------- | -------- | -------     |     |
| igmp                  |     | 6             | 5000     | yes         |     |
| lacp                  |     | 2             | 2000     | yes         |     |
| stp                   |     | 4             | 4000     | no          |     |
| default               |     | 1             | 6000     | yes         |     |
% Warning: user-specified classes in CoPP policy My_CoppPolicy do not match
| active configuration. |         |               |               |                   |          |
| --------------------- | ------- | ------------- | ------------- | ----------------- | -------- |
| switch(config-copp)#  |         | exit          |               |                   |          |
| switch(config)#       | reset   | copp-policy   | My_CoppPolicy |                   |          |
| switch(config)#       | do show | copp-policy   | My_CoppPolicy |                   |          |
| class                 |         | drop priority | rate          | pps hardware      | rate pps |
| --------------------- |         | ---- -------- | --------      | ----------------- |          |
| igmp                  |         | 6             | 5000          | 5000              |          |
| lacp                  |         | 2             | 2000          | 2000              |          |
| default               |         | 1             | 6000          | 6000              |          |
Resettingthedefaultpolicy:
| switch(config)# | reset | copp-policy | default |     |     |
| --------------- | ----- | ----------- | ------- | --- | --- |
show copp-policy
Syntax
| show copp-policy | [<NAME> | | default] | [commands] | [configuration] |     |
| ---------------- | ------- | ---------- | ---------- | --------------- | --- |
Description
ShowsCoPPpolicysettingsforaspecificCoPPpolicy.Whenenteredwithoutspecifyingeitheranameorthe
defaultparameter,showsalltheCoPPpolicysettingsthatareactiveontheswitchandhavesuccessfully
beenprogrammedintothehardware.
Awarningisdisplayedif:
Theactiveanduser-specifiedapplicationsofapolicydonotmatch.
n
Theactiveanduser-specifiedconfigurationsofapolicydonotmatch.
n
Commandcontext
Operator(>)orManager(#)
Parameters
<NAME>
Specifiesthenameofthepolicyforwhichtodisplaysettings.Length:1to64characters.
default
DisplaysCoPPsettingsforthedefaultpolicy.
commands
DisplaysoutputasCLIcommands.
configuration
Displaysuser-specifiedCoPPsettingsandnottheactivesettings.
ControlPlanePolicing(CoPP)|14

Authority
OperatorsorAdministratorsorlocalusergroupmemberswithexecutionrightsforthiscommand.
Operatorscanexecutethiscommandfromtheoperatorcontext(>)only.
Example
DisplayingtheCoPPpoliciesdefinedintheconfigurationandtheactiveapplication:
| switch# show             | copp-policy |     |     |     |     |
| ------------------------ | ----------- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| applied copp_policy_name |             |     |     |     |     |
| ------- ---------------- |             |     |     |     |     |
My_CoppPolicy
| applied default |     |     |     |     |     |
| --------------- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
switch#
DisplayingtheactiveconfigurationofallCoPPpoliciesasCLIcommands:
Displayingthedefaultpolicy:
| switch# show          | copp-policy | default         |          |                   |          |
| --------------------- | ----------- | --------------- | -------- | ----------------- | -------- |
| class                 |             | drop priority   | rate pps | hardware          | rate pps |
| --------------------- |             | ---- --------   | -------- | ----------------- |          |
| arp-broadcast         |             | 2               | 1250     | 1250              |          |
| arp-unicast           |             | 3               | 825      | 825               |          |
| <--OUTPUT             | OMITTED     | FOR BREVITY-->  |          |                   |          |
| default               |             | 2               | 4225     | 4225              |          |
| show copp-policy      |             | factory-default |          |                   |          |
Syntax
| show copp-policy | factory-default | [commands] |     |     |     |
| ---------------- | --------------- | ---------- | --- | --- | --- |
Description
Displaytheconfigurationforthefactory-defaultCoPPpolicy.
Commandcontext
Operator(>)orManager(#)
Parameters
commands
DisplaysoutputasCLIcommands.
Authority
OperatorsorAdministratorsorlocalusergroupmemberswithexecutionrightsforthiscommand.
Operatorscanexecutethiscommandfromtheoperatorcontext(>)only.
Example
Displayingthefactory-defaultpolicy:
| switch# show | copp-policy | factory-default |          |     |     |
| ------------ | ----------- | --------------- | -------- | --- | --- |
| class        |             | drop priority   | rate pps |     |     |
AOS-CX10.07CoPPGuide|6100SwitchSeries 15

| --------------------- |         |     | ---- --------  |     | -------- |     |     |
| --------------------- | ------- | --- | -------------- | --- | -------- | --- | --- |
| arp-broadcast         |         |     | 2              |     | 1250     |     |     |
| arp-unicast           |         |     | 3              |     | 825      |     |     |
| <--OUTPUT             | OMITTED |     | FOR BREVITY--> |     |          |     |     |
| default               |         |     | 2              |     | 4225     |     |     |
DisplayingtheactiveconfigurationofMy_CoppPolicy(My_CoppPolicyisapplied):
| switch# config        |     | terminal |               |               |               |                   |          |
| --------------------- | --- | -------- | ------------- | ------------- | ------------- | ----------------- | -------- |
| switch(config)#       |     | apply    | copp-policy   | My_CoppPolicy |               |                   |          |
| switch(config)#       |     | do show  | copp-policy   |               | My_CoppPolicy |                   |          |
| class                 |     |          | drop priority |               | rate pps      | hardware          | rate pps |
| --------------------- |     |          | ---- -------- |               | --------      | ----------------- |          |
| igmp                  |     |          | 6             |               | 5000          | 5000              |          |
| lacp                  |     |          | 2             |               | 2000          | 2000              |          |
| default               |     |          | 1             |               | 6000          | 6000              |          |
DisplayingtheactiveconfigurationofMy_CoppPolicyasCLIcommands:
| switch# show      | copp-policy   |               | My_CoppPolicy |      | commands |     |     |
| ----------------- | ------------- | ------------- | ------------- | ---- | -------- | --- | --- |
| copp-policy       | My_CoppPolicy |               |               |      |          |     |     |
| class             | igmp          | priority      | 6 rate        | 5000 |          |     |     |
| class             | lacp          | priority      | 2 rate        | 2000 |          |     |     |
| default-class     |               | priority      | 1 rate        | 6000 |          |     |     |
| apply copp-policy |               | My_CoppPolicy |               |      |          |     |     |
Displayingtheuser-specifiedconfigurationofMy_CoppPolicy:
| switch# show          | copp-policy |     | My_CoppPolicy |     | configuration |         |     |
| --------------------- | ----------- | --- | ------------- | --- | ------------- | ------- | --- |
| class                 |             |     | drop priority |     | rate pps      | applied |     |
| --------------------- |             |     | ---- -------- |     | --------      | ------- |     |
| igmp                  |             |     | 6             |     | 5000          | yes     |     |
| lacp                  |             |     | 2             |     | 2000          | yes     |     |
| default               |             |     | 1             |     | 6000          | yes     |     |
Displayingtheuser-specifiedconfigurationofMy_CoppPolicyasCLIcommands:
| switch# show      | copp-policy   |               | My_CoppPolicy |      | commands | configuration |     |
| ----------------- | ------------- | ------------- | ------------- | ---- | -------- | ------------- | --- |
| copp-policy       | My_CoppPolicy |               |               |      |          |               |     |
| class             | igmp          | priority      | 6 rate        | 5000 |          |               |     |
| class             | lacp          | priority      | 2 rate        | 2000 |          |               |     |
| default-class     |               | priority      | 1 rate        | 6000 |          |               |     |
| apply copp-policy |               | My_CoppPolicy |               |      |          |               |     |
| show copp-policy  |               | statistics    |               |      |          |               |     |
Syntax
show copp-policy statistics [class <CLASS> | default-class | non-zero]
Description
Displaysstatisticsforallclasses,asingleclass,orallclasseswithnon-zerostatisticsintheactiveCoPPpolicy.
Commandcontext
ControlPlanePolicing(CoPP)|16

Operator(>)orManager(#)
Parameters
<CLASS>
Specifiestheclassforwhichtodisplaystatistics.
default-class
Displaysstatisticsforthedefaultclass.
non-zero
Displaysstatisticsforallclasseswithnon-zerostatistics.
Authority
OperatorsorAdministratorsorlocalusergroupmemberswithexecutionrightsforthiscommand.
Operatorscanexecutethiscommandfromtheoperatorcontext(>)only.
Usage
Ifasingleclassisspecified,thepriorityandratethathasbeenprogrammedinhardwareforthatclasswillbe
shown.
Examples
ApplyingthedefaultCoPPpolicyanddisplayingstatisticsforallclassesintheactivelyappliedpolicy:
Theratedisplayedistheactualrateinhardware.
| switch#         | config |             | terminal    |             |            |     |     |
| --------------- | ------ | ----------- | ----------- | ----------- | ---------- | --- | --- |
| switch(config)# |        |             | apply       | copp-policy | default    |     |     |
| switch(config)# |        |             | exit        |             |            |     |     |
| switch#         | show   | copp-policy |             | statistics  |            |     |     |
| Statistics      |        | for         | CoPP policy |             | 'default': |     |     |
Totals:
| packets |     | passed | :   | 1000 |     | packets dropped | : 1500 |
| ------- | --- | ------ | --- | ---- | --- | --------------- | ------ |
Class: default
| packets |     | passed | :   | 400 |     | packets dropped | : 600 |
| ------- | --- | ------ | --- | --- | --- | --------------- | ----- |
Class: arp-broadcast
| packets |           | passed | :       | 500 |            | packets dropped | : 800 |
| ------- | --------- | ------ | ------- | --- | ---------- | --------------- | ----- |
|         | <--OUTPUT |        | OMITTED | FOR | BREVITY--> |                 |       |
Displayingstatisticsforthedefaultclassintheactivepolicy:
| switch(config)# |     |     | show copp-policy |     | statistics | default-class |     |
| --------------- | --- | --- | ---------------- | --- | ---------- | ------------- | --- |
| Statistics      |     | for | CoPP policy      |     | 'default': |               |     |
Class: default
| Description: |       | Default |     |     |      |                 |       |
| ------------ | ----- | ------- | --- | --- | ---- | --------------- | ----- |
| priority     |       |         |     | :   | 2    |                 |       |
| rate         | (pps) |         |     | :   | 4225 |                 |       |
| packets      |       | passed  | :   | 400 |      | packets dropped | : 600 |
Displayingstatisticsfortheclassarp-broadcastintheactivelyappliedpolicy:
AOS-CX10.07CoPPGuide|6100SwitchSeries 17

| switch#    | show copp-policy |        | statistics | class | arp-broadcast |     |
| ---------- | ---------------- | ------ | ---------- | ----- | ------------- | --- |
| Statistics | for CoPP         | policy | 'default': |       |               |     |
Class: arp-broadcast
| Description: | Address | Resolution |        | Protocol | broadcast       |       |
| ------------ | ------- | ---------- | ------ | -------- | --------------- | ----- |
| priority     |         |            | : 2    |          |                 |       |
| rate         | (pps)   |            | : 1250 |          |                 |       |
| packets      | passed  | : 500      |        |          | packets dropped | : 800 |
| show tech    | copp    |            |        |          |                 |       |
Syntax
show tech copp
Description
DisplaystheoutputofallshowcommandssupportedbyCoPP.
Authority
Administratorsorlocalusergroupmemberswithexecutionrightsforthiscommand.
Examples
Capturingthecommandoutputintoalocalfile:
| switch# | show tech | copp local-file |     |     |     |     |
| ------- | --------- | --------------- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
Show Tech output stored in local-file. Please use 'copy show-tech local-file' to
| copy-out   | this file.     |            |     |     |     |     |
| ---------- | -------------- | ---------- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| switch#    | copy show-tech | local-file |     | ?   |     |     |
| REMOTE_URL | URL            | of syntax  |     |     |     |     |
{tftp://|sftp://USER@}{IP|HOST}[:PORT][;blocksize=VAL]/FILE
| STORAGE_URL | URL            | of syntax  |     | usb:/file |     |     |
| ----------- | -------------- | ---------- | --- | --------- | --- | --- |
| switch#     | copy show-tech | local-file |     |           |     |     |
ControlPlanePolicing(CoPP)|18

Support and Other Resources

Chapter 3

Support and Other Resources

Accessing Aruba Support

Aruba Support Services

https://www.arubanetworks.com/support-services/

Aruba Support Portal

https://asp.arubanetworks.com/

North America telephone

1-800-943-4526 (US & Canada Toll-Free Number)

+1-408-754-1200 (Primary - Toll Number)

+1-650-385-6582 (Backup - Toll Number - Use only when all other
numbers are not working)

International telephone

https://www.arubanetworks.com/support-services/contact-
support/

Be sure to collect the following information before contacting Support:

n Technical support registration number (if applicable)

n Product name, model or version, and serial number

n Operating system name and version

n Firmware version

n Error messages

n Product-specific reports and logs

n Add-on products or components

n Third-party products or components

Other useful sites

Other websites that can be used to find information:

Airheads social forums and Knowledge
Base

https://community.arubanetworks.com/

Software licensing

https://lms.arubanetworks.com/

End-of-Life information

https://www.arubanetworks.com/support-services/end-of-life/

Aruba software and documentation

https://asp.arubanetworks.com/downloads

Accessing Updates
You can access updates from the Aruba Support Portal or the HPE My Networking Website.

Aruba Support Portal

AOS-CX 10.07 CoPP Guide | 6100 Switch Series

19

https://asp.arubanetworks.com/downloads

If you are unable to find your product in the Aruba Support Portal, you may need to search My Networking,
where older networking products can be found:

My Networking

https://www.hpe.com/networking/support

To view and update your entitlements, and to link your contracts and warranties with your profile, go to the
Hewlett Packard Enterprise Support Center More Information on Access to Support Materials page:

https://support.hpe.com/portal/site/hpsc/aae/home/

Access to some updates might require product entitlement when accessed through the Hewlett Packard
Enterprise Support Center. You must have an HP Passport set up with relevant entitlements.

Some software products provide a mechanism for accessing software updates through the product
interface. Review your product documentation to identify the recommended software update method.

To subscribe to eNewsletters and alerts:

https://asp.arubanetworks.com/notifications/subscriptions (requires an active Aruba Support Portal (ASP)
account to manage subscriptions). Security notices are viewable without an ASP account.

Warranty Information
To view warranty information for your product, go to https://www.arubanetworks.com/support-
services/product-warranties/.

Regulatory Information
To view the regulatory information for your product, view the Safety and Compliance Information for Server,
Storage, Power, Networking, and Rack Products, available at https://www.hpe.com/support/Safety-
Compliance-EnterpriseProducts

Additional regulatory information

Aruba is committed to providing our customers with information about the chemical substances in our
products as needed to comply with legal requirements, environmental data (company programs, product
recycling, energy efficiency), and safety information and compliance data, (RoHS and WEEE). For more
information, see https://www.arubanetworks.com/company/about-us/environmental-citizenship/.

Documentation Feedback
Aruba is committed to providing documentation that meets your needs. To help us improve the
documentation, send any errors, suggestions, or comments to Documentation Feedback (docsfeedback-
switching@hpe.com). When submitting your feedback, include the document title, part number, edition,
and publication date located on the front cover of the document. For online help content, include the
product name, product version, help edition, and publication date located on the legal notices page.

Support and Other Resources | 20