| AOS-CX |         | 10.07  | Quality | of  |
| ------ | ------- | ------ | ------- | --- |
|        | Service |        | Guide   |     |
|        | 6100    | Switch | Series  |     |
PartNumber:5200-7878
Published:April2021
Edition:1

Copyright Information

© Copyright 2021 Hewlett Packard Enterprise Development LP.

Open Source Code

This product includes code licensed under the GNU General Public License, the GNU Lesser General Public
License, and/or certain other open source licenses. A complete machine-readable copy of the source code
corresponding to such code is available upon request. This offer is valid to anyone in receipt of this
information and shall expire three years following the date of the final distribution of this product version
by Hewlett Packard Enterprise Company. To obtain such source code, send a check or money order in the
amount of US $10.00 to:

Hewlett Packard Enterprise Company
6280 America Center Drive
San Jose, CA 95002
USA

Notices

The information contained herein is subject to change without notice. The only warranties for Hewlett
Packard Enterprise products and services are set forth in the express warranty statements accompanying
such products and services. Nothing herein should be construed as constituting an additional warranty.
Hewlett Packard Enterprise shall not be liable for technical or editorial errors or omissions contained herein.

Confidential computer software. Valid license from Hewlett Packard Enterprise required for possession, use,
or copying. Consistent with FAR 12.211 and 12.212, Commercial Computer Software, Computer Software
Documentation, and Technical Data for Commercial Items are licensed to the U.S. Government under
vendor's standard commercial license.

Links to third-party websites take you outside the Hewlett Packard Enterprise website. Hewlett Packard
Enterprise has no control over and is not responsible for information outside the Hewlett Packard
Enterprise website.

Acknowledgments

Intel®, Itanium®, Optane™, Pentium®, Xeon®, Intel Inside®, and the Intel Inside logo are trademarks of
Intel Corporation in the U.S. and other countries.

Microsoft® and Windows® are either registered trademarks or trademarks of Microsoft Corporation in the
United States and/or other countries.

Adobe® and Acrobat® are trademarks of Adobe Systems Incorporated.

Java® and Oracle® are registered trademarks of Oracle and/or its affiliates.

UNIX® is a registered trademark of The Open Group.

All third-party marks are property of their respective owners.

| 2

Contents
Contents
| Contents                                     |                        | 3   |
| -------------------------------------------- | ---------------------- | --- |
| About this                                   | document               | 5   |
| Applicableproducts                           |                        | 5   |
| Latestversionavailableonline                 |                        | 5   |
| Commandsyntaxnotationconventions             |                        | 5   |
| Abouttheexamples                             |                        | 6   |
| Identifyingswitchportsandinterfaces          |                        | 6   |
| QoS overview                                 |                        | 8   |
| End-to-endQoSbehavior                        |                        | 8   |
|                                              | Besteffortservice      | 8   |
|                                              | ClassofService         | 8   |
|                                              | Differentiatedservices | 9   |
| QoSontheswitch                               |                        | 10  |
|                                              | QoStrust               | 11  |
|                                              | DynamicQoStrustmode    | 12  |
|                                              | Portratelimiting       | 12  |
|                                              | Queueprofiles          | 12  |
|                                              | Scheduleprofiles       | 13  |
|                                              | Egressqueueshaping     | 13  |
|                                              | Terms                  | 14  |
| QoS configuration                            |                        | 15  |
| ConfiguringQoS                               |                        | 15  |
| ConfiguringexpeditedforwardingforVoIPtraffic |                        | 16  |
| Configuringratelimiting                      |                        | 18  |
| Configuringegressqueueshaping                |                        | 19  |
| SupportingEthernet802.1DClassofService       |                        | 19  |
| Monitoringqueueoperation                     |                        | 20  |
| QoS commands                                 |                        | 22  |
| applyqos                                     |                        | 22  |
| mapqueue                                     |                        | 24  |
| min-bandwidth                                |                        | 25  |
| namequeue                                    |                        | 26  |
| qoscos                                       |                        | 27  |
| qosdscp                                      |                        | 27  |
| qosdscp-map                                  |                        | 29  |
| qosqueue-profile                             |                        | 30  |
| qosschedule-profile                          |                        | 31  |
| qostrust                                     |                        | 33  |
| rate-limit                                   |                        | 34  |
| showinterfacequeues                          |                        | 36  |
| showinterfaceqos                             |                        | 37  |
| showqoscos-map                               |                        | 38  |
| showqosdscp-map                              |                        | 39  |
| showqosqueue-profile                         |                        | 40  |
| showqosschedule-profile                      |                        | 41  |
3
AOS-CX10.07QualityofServiceGuide| (6100SwitchSeries)

| showqostrust          |                    |           | 42  |
| --------------------- | ------------------ | --------- | --- |
| strictqueue           |                    |           | 43  |
| Support               | and Other          | Resources | 45  |
| AccessingArubaSupport |                    |           | 45  |
| AccessingUpdates      |                    |           | 45  |
|                       | ArubaSupportPortal |           | 45  |
|                       | MyNetworking       |           | 46  |
| WarrantyInformation   |                    |           | 46  |
| RegulatoryInformation |                    |           | 46  |
| DocumentationFeedback |                    |           | 46  |
Contents|4

Chapter 1
About this document
| About | this document |     |     |
| ----- | ------------- | --- | --- |
ThisdocumentdescribesfeaturesoftheAOS-CXnetworkoperatingsystem.Itisintendedforadministrators
responsibleforinstalling,configuring,andmanagingArubaswitchesonanetwork.
| Applicable | products |     |     |
| ---------- | -------- | --- | --- |
Thisdocumentappliestothefollowingproducts:
Aruba6100SwitchSeries(JL675A,JL676A,JL677A,JL678A,JL679A)
n
| Latest | version | available | online |
| ------ | ------- | --------- | ------ |
Updatestothisdocumentcanoccurafterinitialpublication.Forthelatestversionsofproduct
documentation,seethelinksprovidedinSupportandOtherResources.
| Command    | syntax | notation | conventions |
| ---------- | ------ | -------- | ----------- |
| Convention |        | Usage    |             |
example-text Identifiescommandsandtheiroptionsandoperands,codeexamples,
filenames,pathnames,andoutputdisplayedinacommandwindow.Itemsthat
appearliketheexampletextinthepreviouscolumnaretobeenteredexactly
asshownandarerequiredunlessenclosedinbrackets([ ]).
example-text Incodeandscreenexamples,indicatestextenteredbyauser.
Anyofthefollowing: Identifiesaplaceholder—suchasaparameteroravariable—thatyoumust
n <example-text> substitutewithanactualvalueinacommandorincode:
<example-text>
n
|     |     | n Foroutputformatswhereitalictextcannotbedisplayed,variablesare |     |
| --- | --- | --------------------------------------------------------------- | --- |
n example-text
enclosedinanglebrackets(< >).Substitutethetext—includingthe
n example-text
enclosinganglebrackets—withanactualvalue.
Foroutputformatswhereitalictextcanbedisplayed,variablesmight
n
ormightnotbeenclosedinanglebrackets.Substitutethetext
includingtheenclosinganglebrackets,ifany,withanactualvalue.
| Verticalbar.AlogicalORthatseparatesmultipleitemsfromwhichyoucan
chooseonlyone.
Anyspacesthatareoneithersideoftheverticalbarareincludedfor
readabilityandarenotarequiredpartofthecommandsyntax.
{ } Braces.Indicatesthatatleastoneoftheencloseditemsisrequired.
| [ ] |     | Brackets.Indicatesthattheencloseditemoritemsareoptional. |     |
| --- | --- | -------------------------------------------------------- | --- |
5
| AOS-CX10.07QualityofServiceGuide| |     | (6100SwitchSeries) |     |
| --------------------------------- | --- | ------------------ | --- |

Convention

… or

...

Usage

Ellipsis:

n In code and screen examples, a vertical or horizontal ellipsis indicates an

omission of information.

n In syntax using brackets and braces, an ellipsis indicates items that can be

repeated. When an item followed by ellipses is enclosed in brackets, zero

or more items can be specified.

About the examples
Examples in this document are representative and might not match your particular switch or environment.

The slot and port numbers in this document are for illustration only and might be unavailable on your
switch.

Understanding the CLI prompts

When illustrating the prompts in the command line interface (CLI), this document uses the generic term
switch, instead of the host name of the switch. For example:
switch>

The CLI prompt indicates the current command context. For example:
switch>

Indicates the operator command context.

switch#

Indicates the manager command context.

switch(CONTEXT-NAME)#

Indicates the configuration context for a feature. For example:

switch(config-if)#

Identifies the interface context.

Variable information in CLI prompts

In certain configuration contexts, the prompt may include variable information. For example, when in the
VLAN configuration context, a VLAN number appears in the prompt:
switch(config-vlan-100)#

When referring to this context, this document uses the syntax:
switch(config-vlan-<VLAN-ID>)#

Where <VLAN-ID> is a variable representing the VLAN number.

Identifying switch ports and interfaces
Physical ports on the switch and their corresponding logical software interfaces are identified using the
format:
member/slot/port

On the 6100 Switch Series

n member: Always 1. VSF is not supported on this switch.

n slot: Always 1. This is not a modular switch, so there are no slots.

n port: Physical number of a port on the switch.

About this document | 6

For example, the logical interface 1/1/4 in software is associated with physical port 4 on the switch.

AOS-CX 10.07 Quality of Service Guide | (6100 Switch Series)

7

Chapter 2
QoS overview
QoS overview
QualityofService(QoS)enablesnetworkadministratorstocustomizehowdifferenttypesoftrafficare
servicedonanetwork,takingintoaccounttheuniquecharacteristicsofeachtraffictypeanditsimportance
withinanorganization'sinfrastructure.QoSensuresuniformandefficienttraffichandling,keepingthemost
importanttrafficmovingatanacceptablespeed,regardlessofcurrentbandwidthusage.Italsoprovides
methodsforadministratorstocontroltheprioritysettingsofinboundtrafficarrivingateachnetwork
device.
| End-to-end | QoS behavior |     |
| ---------- | ------------ | --- |
TheQoSsettingsoneachnetworkdevicemustbealignedtoachievethedesiredend-to-endQoSbehavior
foranetwork.Threeservicetypescanbeusedtocategorizeandprioritizenetworktraffic:
n BestEffortService
n EthernetClassofService(CoS)
InternetDifferentiatedServices(DiffServ)
n
Foranetworkasawhole,itisbesttoselectoneservicetypetouseastheprimaryend-to-endbehavior,and
thenusetheothertwoservicetypesasneeded.
| Best effort | service |     |
| ----------- | ------- | --- |
Thisisthesimplestservicetype.Alltrafficistreatedequallyinafirst-come,first-servedmanner.Ifthetraffic
loadislowinrelationtothecapacityofthenetworklinks,thenthereisnoneedfortheadministrative
complexityandcostsofmaintainingamorecomplexend-to-endpolicy.Thisissometimescalledover-
provisioning,asalllinkspeedsaremuchhigherthanpeakloadsonthenetwork.
| Class of | Service |     |
| -------- | ------- | --- |
ClassofService(CoS)isamethodforclassifyingnetworktrafficatlayer2bymarking802.1QVLANEthernet
frameswithoneofeightserviceclasses.
| CoS | Traffic type         | Example protocols |
| --- | -------------------- | ----------------- |
| 7   | NetworkControl       | STP,PVST          |
| 6   | InternetworkControl  | BGP,OSPF,PIM      |
| 5   | Voice(<10mslatency)  | VoIP(UDP)         |
| 4   | Video(<100mslatency) | RTP               |
| 3   | CriticalApplications | SQLRPC,SNMP       |
| 2   | ExcellentEffort      | NFS,SMB           |
8
AOS-CX10.07QualityofServiceGuide| (6100SwitchSeries)

| CoS | Traffic type |     |     |     | Example protocols |     |
| --- | ------------ | --- | --- | --- | ----------------- | --- |
| 0   | BestEffort   |     |     |     | HTTP,TELNET       |     |
| 1   | Background   |     |     |     | SMTP,IMAP         |     |
CoS1isdeliberatelysetasthelowestCoS.Thisenablesatrafficservicelevelbelowthedefault(besteffort)
trafficleveltobespecified.
The3-bitPriorityCodePoint(PCP)fieldwithinthe16-bitEthernetVLANtagisusedtomarktheCoS.
+--------+--------+--------+----------+-----------+--------
| | mac-da | | mac-sa | | 0x8100 | VLAN | tag | | ethertype | | data... |     |
| -------- | -------- | --------------- | ----- | --------- | --------- | --- |
+--------+--------+--------+----------+-----------+--------
|     |     | /   | \   |     |     |     |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
|     |     | /   |     | \   |     |     |
|     |     | /   |     | \   |     |     |
+-----+-----+---------+
|     |     | | pcp | dei | | vlan_id | |   |     |     |
| --- | --- | ----------- | --------- | --- | --- | --- |
+-----+-----+---------+
| Differentiated | services |     |     |     |     |     |
| -------------- | -------- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
Differentiatedservices(DiffServ)isamethodforclassifyingnetworktrafficatlayer3bymarkingpackets
withoneof64differentserviceclasses.ServicesclassesareidentifiedbytheDifferentiatedservicesCode
Point(DSCP)value.SomecommonDSCPvaluesare:
| DSCP     | Name           |     | Service                | class |     | RFC  |
| -------- | -------------- | --- | ---------------------- | ----- | --- | ---- |
| 56       | CS6            |     | NetworkControl         |       |     | 2474 |
| 46       | EF             |     | Telephony              |       |     | 3246 |
| 40       | CS5            |     | Signaling              |       |     | 2474 |
| 34,36,38 | AF41,AF42,AF43 |     | MultimediaConferencing |       |     | 2597 |
| 32       | CS4            |     | Real-TimeInteractive   |       |     | 2474 |
| 26,28,30 | AF31,AF32,AF33 |     | MultimediaStreaming    |       |     | 2597 |
| 24       | CS3            |     | BroadcastVideo         |       |     | 2474 |
| 18,20,22 | AF21,AF22,AF23 |     | Low-LatencyData        |       |     | 2597 |
| 16       | CS2            |     | OAM                    |       |     | 2474 |
| 00       | CS0,BE,DF      |     | BestEffort             |       |     | 2474 |
| 10,12,14 | AF11,AF12,AF13 |     | BulkData               |       |     | 2597 |
| 08       | CS1            |     | Low-PriorityData       |       |     | 3662 |
DSCPCS1(08)CoS1isdeliberatelysetasthelowestpriority.Thisenablesatrafficservicelevelbelowthe
standard(besteffortordefaultforwarding)leveltobespecified.
QoSoverview |9

The DSCP value is carried within the IPv4 DSCP field or the upper 6-bits of the 8-bit IPv6 Traffic Class (TC)
field.

IPv4
+----+-----+----+----+---+-------+----+------+-------+------+------+-------
|ver |dscp |ecn |len |id |offset |ttl |proto |chksum |ip-sa |ip-da | data..
+----+-----+----+----+---+-------+----+------+-------+------+------+-------

+------+-----+
| dscp | ecn |
+------+-----+

\

\

/

/

/

IPv6 \
+-----+-----+-----+-------+-------------+-----------+-------+-------+--------
| ver | tc | len | label | next_header | hop_limit | ip-sa | ip-da | data...
+-----+-----+-----+-------+-------------+-----------+-------+-------+--------

QoS on the switch
There are five key stages a packet passes through when traversing a switch: ingress, prioritization,
destination determination, egress queuing, and transmission.

Switches with at least 52 ports will experience negative performance if a flood occurs where at least 42 ports are

members of the same VLAN and all 52 ports have QoS rules applied to them.

AOS-CX 10.07 Quality of Service Guide | (6100 Switch Series)

10

The following diagram shows how different packets might traverse a switch. It also shows how QoS
configuration settings apply at each stage.

QoS trust

Traffic priorities for networks can be carried in VLAN tags using the CoS Priority Code Point (PCP), or in IP
packet headers using the Differentiated Services Code Point (DSCP). Whether these priorities affect how
traffic is serviced depends on how the QoS trust mode is configured on the switch. The QoS trust mode
specifies how the switch assigns values to ingress packets and can be set globally for all interfaces or

QoS overview | 11

individually for each interface. By default the trust mode is set to cos, meaning the existing QoS information
in the packet will be trusted. The priority values of DSCP packets are mapped to corresponding CoS values.
If the trust mode is set to none the CoS value in the incoming packet will be marked as zero.

For example:

Dynamic QoS trust mode

The device profile feature can dynamically set the QoS trust mode on an interface based on the LLDP
information exchanged with a link partner. The device profile's trust mode temporarily overrides the static
trust mode configured for an interface. The override remains in place as long as that link partner is
connected and its link state is up. Use command show interface IFNAME qos to view the current QoS trust
mode for an interface.

Port rate limiting

Port rate limiting helps control undesirable traffic. Its purpose is to allow enough broadcast, multicast, and
ICMP rate-limit traffic for the network to function properly, while preventing flooding and traffic storms.

Unknown unicast rate limiting is supported.

Queue profiles

A queue profile defines the queues that are associated with an interface to control the transmission of
packets. Each profile supports up to eight queues, numbered 0 to 7. The larger the queue number, the

AOS-CX 10.07 Quality of Service Guide | (6100 Switch Series)

12

higheritspriorityduringtransmissionscheduling.Packetsareassignedtoaqueuebasedontheirlocal
priorityvalue(0to7).Aqueueprofilemustmapalleightlocalpriorityvaluestowhateverqueuesarebeing
usedontheswitch,andascheduleprofilemustspecifytheconfigurationforthosesamequeues.Aqueue
withoutalocalpriorityvalueassignedtoitisnotusedtostorepackets.Packetsareassignedtothequeue
basedonCoSvalue.ThequeueprofiledefinesqueuenumbertoCoSmapping.Thefactory-defaultmap
crossmapsthe0and1values.
| switch#   | show qos queue-profile |                           | factory-default |
| --------- | ---------------------- | ------------------------- | --------------- |
| queue_num | cos                    | name                      |                 |
| --------- | -----------            | ----                      |                 |
| 0         | 1                      | Scavenger_and_backup_data |                 |
| 1         | 0                      |                           |                 |
| 2         | 2                      |                           |                 |
| 3         | 3                      |                           |                 |
| 4         | 4                      |                           |                 |
| 5         | 5                      |                           |                 |
| 6         | 6                      |                           |                 |
| 7         | 7                      |                           |                 |
CommonlyusedcommandsforworkingwithQoSqueuesareasfollows:
n qos queue-profile:Createsanemptyqueue-profileandenterstheprofileconfigurationcontext.
n name queue:Assignsadescriptivenametoaqueue.
map queue:MapsqueuetoCoS.
n
apply qos queue-profile:Appliesaqueue-profilegloballytoallinterfaces.
n
| Schedule | profiles |     |     |
| -------- | -------- | --- | --- |
Ascheduleprofiledeterminestheorderinwhichqueuesareselectedfortransmission,andtheamountof
serviceavailableforeachqueue.Ascheduleprofilemustbeconfiguredoneveryinterfaceatalltimes.A
scheduleprofilecanbeappliedgloballytoallinterfaces,oronlytospecificinterfaces.Theswitchdescribed
inthisguidesupportstheGuaranteedMinimumBandwidth(GMB),Strict,andStrictEQSscheduling
algorithms.
Theswitchdescribedinthisguidesupports8queues.
| switch#        | show qos schedule-profile |         |                    |
| -------------- | ------------------------- | ------- | ------------------ |
| profile_status | profile_name              |         |                    |
| -------------- | ------------              |         |                    |
| applied        | factory-default           |         |                    |
| complete       | strict                    |         |                    |
| switch#        | show qos schedule-profile |         | factory-default    |
| queue_num      | algorithm                 | percent | max-bandwidth_kbps |
| ---------      | -------------             | ------- | ------------------ |
| 0              | min-bandwidth             | 2       |                    |
| 1              | min-bandwidth             | 3       |                    |
| 2              | min-bandwidth             | 30      |                    |
| 3              | min-bandwidth             | 10      |                    |
| 4              | min-bandwidth             | 10      |                    |
| 5              | min-bandwidth             | 10      |                    |
| 6              | min-bandwidth             | 15      |                    |
| 7              | min-bandwidth             | 20      |                    |
| Egress queue   | shaping                   |         |                    |
QoSoverview |13

Egress queue shaping limits the amount of traffic transmitted per strict output queue. The buffer associated
with each egress queue stores excess traffic to absorb bursts and smooths the output rate. For example, an
administrator might limit strict-priority queue traffic to prevent low-priority queue starvation in the event
that a device inappropriately sends too many higher-priority packets.

Egress queue shaping can be configured on an Ethernet port or on a link aggregation group (LAG). To
configure egress queue shaping, define a schedule profile with the strict priority algorithm assigned to each
queue.

Terms

Class

For networking, a set of packets sharing a common characteristic. For example, all IPv4 packets.

Code point

The name of a packet header field, or the value carried within a packet header field:

n Example 1: Priority code point (PCP) is the name of a field in the IEEE 802.1Q VLAN tag.

n Example 2: Differentiated services code point (DSCP) is the name of a field carried within the DS field

of an IP packet header.

Class of service (CoS)

A 3-bit value used to mark packets with one of eight classes (levels of priority). It is carried within the
priority code point (PCP) field of the IEEE 802.1Q VLAN tag.

Differentiated services code point (DSCP)

A 6-bit value used to mark packets for different per-hop behavior as originally defined by IETF RFC 2474.
It is carried within the differentiated services (DS) field of the IPv4 or IPv6 header.

Metadata

Information labels associated with each packet in the switch, separate from the packet headers and data.
These labels are used by the switch in its handling of the packet. For example: arrival port, egress port,
VLAN membership, and local priority.

Priority code point (PCP)

The name of a 3-bit field in the IEEE 802.1Q VLAN tag. It carries the CoS value to mark a packet with one
of eight classes (priority levels).

Quality of service (QoS)

General term used when describing or measuring performance. For networking, it means how different
classes of packets are treated when traversing a network or device.

Traffic class (TC)

General term for a set of packets sharing a common characteristic. It used to be the name of an 8-bit
field in the IPv6 header originally defined by IETF RFC 2460. This field name was changed to
differentiated services by IETF RFC 2474.

Type of service (ToS)

General term when there are different levels of treatment (fare class). It used to be the name of an 8-bit
field in the IPv4 header originally defined by IETF RFC 791. This field name was changed to differentiated
services by IETF RFC 2474.

AOS-CX 10.07 Quality of Service Guide | (6100 Switch Series)

14

Chapter 3
QoS configuration
QoS configuration
| Configuring | QoS |     |     |
| ----------- | --- | --- | --- |
Procedure
1. Configurehowvaluesareassignedtoingresspacketswiththecommandsqos dscp-map,andqos
trust.
2. Optionally,addaratelimitforingresstrafficononeormoreinterfaceswiththecommandrate-
limit.
3. IfyoudonotwanttousethedefaultQoSqueueprofileforqueuemapping,createoneormore
customqueueprofileswiththecommandqos queue-profile.Foreachqueueinacustomqueue
profile:
| a. AssignaCoSvaluemappingwiththecommandmap |     |     | queue. |
| ------------------------------------------ | --- | --- | ------ |
b. Optionally,defineadescriptivenamewiththecommandname queue.Allqueuesmustbe
mappedtoaCoSvalue,andthequeuesselectedforusemustbeincontiguousorderstartingat
0.
4. IfyoudonotwanttousethedefaultQoSscheduleprofiletodeterminetheorderinwhichqueuesare
selectedtotransmitapacket,createoneormorecustomscheduleprofileswiththecommandqos
schedule-profile.Foreachqueueinacustomschedulequeueprofile,defineschedulingpriority
| withthecommandsstrict |     | queueandmin-bandwidth. |     |
| --------------------- | --- | ---------------------- | --- |
5. Optionallyforstrictqueues,configureegressqueueshapingtolimitegressbandwidthonaninterface
toavaluethatislessthanitslinerate.Usethemax-bandwidthparameterofthestrict queue
command.
6. ActivateQoSsettingswiththecommandapply qos.Thiscommandletsyouapplyaqueueprofile
andscheduleprofilegloballytoallinterfaces,orascheduleprofileoverridetoindividualinterfaces.
7. ViewQoSconfigurationsettingswiththeprovidedshowcommands.
Examples
| This example | creates the | following | configuration: |
| ------------ | ----------- | --------- | -------------- |
ThefollowingexamplecreatesaqueueprofilenamedQ1andassignsqueuetoCoSvaluemapping:
| Queue | CoSValue |     |     |
| ----- | -------- | --- | --- |
| 0     | 0        |     |     |
| 1     | 1        |     |     |
| 2     | 2        |     |     |
| 3     | 3        |     |     |
| 4     | 4        |     |     |
15
| AOS-CX10.07QualityofServiceGuide| | (6100SwitchSeries) |     |     |
| --------------------------------- | ------------------ | --- | --- |

| Queue | CoSValue |     |     |     |     |     |     |
| ----- | -------- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| 5     | 5        |     |     |     |     |     |     |
| 6     | 6        |     |     |     |     |     |     |
| 7     | 7        |     |     |     |     |     |     |
CreatesascheduleprofilenamedS1andassignsminimumbandwidthforeachqueuewithacorresponding
percentagevalue:
| Queue | Minimumbandwidth |     |     | (pecentage) |     |     |     |
| ----- | ---------------- | --- | --- | ----------- | --- | --- | --- |
| 0     | 5                |     |     |             |     |     |     |
| 1     | 5                |     |     |             |     |     |     |
| 2     | 10               |     |     |             |     |     |     |
| 3     | 10               |     |     |             |     |     |     |
| 4     | 20               |     |     |             |     |     |     |
| 5     | 20               |     |     |             |     |     |     |
| 6     | 10               |     |     |             |     |     |     |
| 7     | 20               |     |     |             |     |     |     |
AppliesQ1andS1toallinterfacesthatdonothaveaQoSoverrideapplied.
| switch(config)#          |     | qos | trust            | cos     |         |            |     |
| ------------------------ | --- | --- | ---------------- | ------- | ------- | ---------- | --- |
| switch(config)#          |     | qos | queue-profile    |         | Q1      |            |     |
| switch(config-queue)#    |     |     | map              | queue 0 | cos 0   |            |     |
| switch(config-queue)#    |     |     | map              | queue 1 | cos 1   |            |     |
| switch(config-queue)#    |     |     | map              | queue 2 | cos 2   |            |     |
| switch(config-queue)#    |     |     | map              | queue 3 | cos 3   |            |     |
| switch(config-queue)#    |     |     | map              | queue 4 | cos 4   |            |     |
| switch(config-queue)#    |     |     | map              | queue 5 | cos 5   |            |     |
| switch(config-queue)#    |     |     | map              | queue 6 | cos 6   |            |     |
| switch(config-queue)#    |     |     | map              | queue 7 | cos 7   |            |     |
| switch(config)#          |     | qos | schedule-profile |         | S1      |            |     |
| switch(config-schedule)# |     |     | min-bandwidth    |         | queue 0 | percent 5  |     |
| switch(config-schedule)# |     |     | min-bandwidth    |         | queue 1 | percent 5  |     |
| switch(config-schedule)# |     |     | min-bandwidth    |         | queue 2 | percent 10 |     |
| switch(config-schedule)# |     |     | min-bandwidth    |         | queue 3 | percent 10 |     |
| switch(config-schedule)# |     |     | min-bandwidth    |         | queue 4 | percent 20 |     |
| switch(config-schedule)# |     |     | min-bandwidth    |         | queue 5 | percent 20 |     |
| switch(config-schedule)# |     |     | min-bandwidth    |         | queue 6 | percent 10 |     |
| switch(config-schedule)# |     |     | min-bandwidth    |         | queue 7 | percent 20 |     |
switch(config-schedule)# apply qos queue-profile Q1 schedule-profile S1
| Configuring |     | expedited |     | forwarding |     | for VoIP | traffic |
| ----------- | --- | --------- | --- | ---------- | --- | -------- | ------- |
VoiceoverIP(VoIP)trafficisdelayandjittersensitive.ForoptimumtransmissionofVoIPtraffic,dwelltime
innetworkdevicesmustbekepttoaminimumandallnetworkdevicesinthedatapathmusthaveidentical
QoSconfiguration |16

per-hopbehaviors.ToconfigureadedicatedqueueontheswitchtohandleVoIPtrafficwithpriorityservice
beforeallotherqueues,followthesesteps.
Prerequisites
ThisscenarioassumesthatVoIPpacketsareuniquelyidentifiedusingDiffServcodepoint46,Expedited
Forwarding(EF).
Procedure
1. MapDSCPEFpacketsexclusivelytoCoSvalue6.ThedefaultDSCPmaphaseightcodepoints(40
through47),thataremappedtoCoSvalue5.Toreserve CoSvalue6forVoIPtraffic,theothercode
pointsmustbereassigned.Inthisscenario,CoSvalue6isusedforallreassignments,includingfor
codepoint40,CallSignalingprotocol(CS5).
| switch(config)# | qos | dscp-map | 40  | cos | 6 name CS5 |     |
| --------------- | --- | -------- | --- | --- | ---------- | --- |
| switch(config)# | qos | dscp-map | 41  | cos | 6          |     |
| switch(config)# | qos | dscp-map | 42  | cos | 6          |     |
| switch(config)# | qos | dscp-map | 43  | cos | 6          |     |
| switch(config)# | qos | dscp-map | 44  | cos | 6          |     |
| switch(config)# | qos | dscp-map | 45  | cos | 6          |     |
2. Queue7isthehighestpriorityqueue,soforbestthroughput,createaqueueprofilethatmapsCoS
toqueue7.
| switch(config)#       | qos | queue-profile |       | ef_priority            |     |     |
| --------------------- | --- | ------------- | ----- | ---------------------- | --- | --- |
| switch(config-queue)# |     | name          | queue | 7 Voice_Priority_Queue |     |     |
| switch(config-queue)# |     | map           | queue | 7 cos                  | 5   |     |
| switch(config-queue)# |     | map           | queue | 6 cos                  | 7   |     |
| switch(config-queue)# |     | map           | queue | 5 cos                  | 6   |     |
| switch(config-queue)# |     | map           | queue | 4 cos                  | 4   |     |
| switch(config-queue)# |     | map           | queue | 3 cos                  | 3   |     |
| switch(config-queue)# |     | map           | queue | 2 cos                  | 2   |     |
| switch(config-queue)# |     | map           | queue | 1 cos                  | 1   |     |
| switch(config-queue)# |     | map           | queue | 0 cos                  | 0   |     |
3. Createascheduleprofilethatservicesqueue7usingstrictpriority(SP),andtheremainingqueues
withminimumbandwidth.Thisscenariodefinesqueue7asstrictandgivesqueues0-6anequal
minimumbandwidth.
| switch(config)#          | qos | schedule-profile |     |       | voip            |     |
| ------------------------ | --- | ---------------- | --- | ----- | --------------- | --- |
| switch(config-schedule)# |     | strict           |     | queue | 7               |     |
| switch(config-schedule)# |     | min-bandwidth    |     |       | queue 6 percent | 10  |
| switch(config-schedule)# |     | min-bandwidth    |     |       | queue 5 percent | 10  |
| switch(config-schedule)# |     | min-bandwidth    |     |       | queue 4 percent | 10  |
| switch(config-schedule)# |     | min-bandwidth    |     |       | queue 3 percent | 10  |
| switch(config-schedule)# |     | min-bandwidth    |     |       | queue 2 percent | 10  |
| switch(config-schedule)# |     | min-bandwidth    |     |       | queue 1 percent | 10  |
| switch(config-schedule)# |     | min-bandwidth    |     |       | queue 0 percent | 10  |
4. Applytheprofilestoallinterfaces.
switch(config)# apply qos queue-profile ef_priority schedule-profile voip
AOS-CX10.07QualityofServiceGuide|(6100SwitchSeries) 17

5. ConfigureDSCPtrustmodeonallports
| switch(config)# | qos trust | dscp |     |
| --------------- | --------- | ---- | --- |
Configuring rate limiting
Thisscenarioillustrateshowtouseratelimitingtomanagethetrafficfromvariousdevicesconnectedtoa
switch.Thephysicaltopologyofthenetworklookslikethis:
Acertainamountofbroadcasttrafficisnecessarytomaintainhealthynetworkoperation,particularlyfrom
routersandacrossserviceboundaries.Inthisscenario,boththeservicecloudandtherouterconnections
limitthistrafficto1Gbps.Theserverhasasmallerlimit,asitdoesnotrequireasmuchnetworkprotocol
trafficastheservicecloudandrouter.
Amulticastserverneedstobeabletostreammulticasttraffictoclients,soamulticastratelimitmaynotbe
helpful.Acomputer,however,shouldnotbegeneratinglargeamountsofmulticasttraffic(itmaybe
receivingstreams,buttypicallynotsendingthem).Inthisexample,thecomputerisconfiguredwitha
multicastratelimittopreventmalicioustrafficfromtakingupnetworkbandwidth.
Finally,whiletheservicecloudandroutermayneedtosendtrafficforunknownunicastaddressesto
resolveaddressforwarding,theserverandcomputershouldsendverylittleofthistypeoftraffic.Rate
limitingunknownunicasttrafficonthosetwodevicesenforcesthat.
Procedure
1. Configurebroadcastandmulticastratelimitingfortheservicecloudconnection.
switch# config
| switch(config)#    | interface  | 1/1/1     |              |
| ------------------ | ---------- | --------- | ------------ |
| switch(config-if)# | rate-limit | broadcast | 1000000 kbps |
| switch(config-if)# | rate-limit | multicast | 2000000 kbps |
| switch(config-if)# | exit       |           |              |
2. Configurebroadcastratelimitingfortherouterconnection.
| switch(config-if)# | interface  | 1/1/2     |              |
| ------------------ | ---------- | --------- | ------------ |
| switch(config-if)# | rate-limit | broadcast | 1000000 kbps |
switch(config-if)#
exit
QoSconfiguration |18

3. Configurebroadcastratelimitingfortheserverconnection.
|     | switch(config-if)# |     | interface  | 1/1/5     |        |      |
| --- | ------------------ | --- | ---------- | --------- | ------ | ---- |
|     | switch(config-if)# |     | rate-limit | broadcast | 200000 | kbps |
|     | switch(config-if)# |     | exit       |           |        |      |
4. Configurebroadcast,andmulticastratelimitingforthecomputerconnection.
|     | switch(config-if)# |     | interface  | 1/1/10    |      |      |
| --- | ------------------ | --- | ---------- | --------- | ---- | ---- |
|     | switch(config-if)# |     | rate-limit | broadcast | 1000 | kbps |
switch(config-if)#
|             |     |        | rate-limit | multicast | 500 | kbps |
| ----------- | --- | ------ | ---------- | --------- | --- | ---- |
| Configuring |     | egress | queue      | shaping   |     |      |
Thisexampleshowshowtoapplyegressqueueshapingtoaninterface.First,ascheduleprofileiscreated
thathasper-queuebandwidthlimitssetonallqueueswithstrictastheschedulingalgorithm.Next,this
profileisappliedtoaninterfaceorLAG.
ThefollowingexamplecreatesascheduleprofilenamedEQSExample,whichservicesallsevenqueuesusing
strictpriority.Thisprofileconfiguresqueues1,4,and7withabandwidthlimitof10Gbps,20Gbps,and
30Gbpsrespectively.Theprofileisthenappliedtointerface1/1/1.
| switch(config)#          |     | qos schedule-profile |        | EQSExample            |     |          |
| ------------------------ | --- | -------------------- | ------ | --------------------- | --- | -------- |
| switch(config-schedule)# |     |                      | strict | queue 0               |     |          |
| switch(config-schedule)# |     |                      | strict | queue 1 max-bandwidth |     | 10000000 |
| switch(config-schedule)# |     |                      | strict | queue 2               |     |          |
switch(config-schedule)#
|                          |     |           | strict               | queue 3               |            |          |
| ------------------------ | --- | --------- | -------------------- | --------------------- | ---------- | -------- |
| switch(config-schedule)# |     |           | strict               | queue 4 max-bandwidth |            | 20000000 |
| switch(config-schedule)# |     |           | strict               | queue 5               |            |          |
| switch(config-schedule)# |     |           | strict               | queue 6               |            |          |
| switch(config-schedule)# |     |           | strict               | queue 7 max-bandwidth |            | 30000000 |
| switch(config-schedule)# |     |           | exit                 |                       |            |          |
| switch(config)#          |     | interface | 1/1/1                |                       |            |          |
| switch(config-if)#       |     | apply     | qos schedule-profile |                       | EQSExample |          |
| Supporting               |     | Ethernet  | 802.1D               | Class                 | of         | Service  |
IEEE802.1QisthemostcurrentEthernetstandardforClassofService(CoS).Itsupersededanearlier
standard,802.1D,in2005.IEEE802.1Qslightlychangedtheorderingoftheclassesofservicefromits
predecessorIEEE802.1DforCoS2andCoS0:
CoS
CoS802.1D
802.1Q
| 7Network | 7NetworkControl |     |     |     |     |     |
| -------- | --------------- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
Control
| 6   | 6Voice(<10mslatency) |     |     |     |     |     |
| --- | -------------------- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
Internetwork
Control
AOS-CX10.07QualityofServiceGuide|(6100SwitchSeries) 19

CoS
CoS802.1D
802.1Q
| 5Voice | 5Video(<100mslatency) |     |     |     |
| ------ | --------------------- | --- | --- | --- |
(<10ms
latency)
| 4Video | 4ControlledLoad |     |     |     |
| ------ | --------------- | --- | --- | --- |
(<100ms
latency)
| 3Critical | 3ExcellentEffort |     |     |     |
| --------- | ---------------- | --- | --- | --- |
Applications
| 2Excellent | 0BestEffort |     |     |     |
| ---------- | ----------- | --- | --- | --- |
Effort
| 0BestEffort | 2Spare      |     |     |     |
| ----------- | ----------- | --- | --- | --- |
| 1           | 1Background |     |     |     |
Background
In802.1D,bothCoS2andCoS1arebelowCoS0(BestEffort).
Whenaswitchisinstalledinanetworkofdevicesfollowing802.1DClassofService,theQoStoqueue
mappingmustbereconfiguredtofollowthe802.1DstandardbyswappingtheassignmentsofCoS0and2:
1. CreateanewqueueprofilewiththedesiredqueuetoCoSmappingchanges.
2. Applythecreatedqueueprofile,usingtheapply qoscommand.
| switch#               | config      |                   |           |            |
| --------------------- | ----------- | ----------------- | --------- | ---------- |
| switch(config)#       |             | queue-profile     |           | newProfile |
| switch(config-queue)# |             |                   | map queue | 0 cos 1    |
| switch(config-queue)# |             |                   | map queue | 2 cos 0    |
| switch(config-queue)# |             |                   | map queue | 1 cos 2    |
| switch(config-queue)# |             |                   | map queue | 3 cos 3    |
| switch(config-queue)# |             |                   | map queue | 4 cos 4    |
| switch(config-queue)# |             |                   | map queue | 5 cos 5    |
| switch(config-queue)# |             |                   | map queue | 6 cos 6    |
| switch(config-queue)# |             |                   | map queue | 7 cos 7    |
| switch#               | show        | qos queue-profile |           | newProfile |
| queue_num             |             | cos               | name      |            |
| ---------             | ----------- |                   | ----      |            |
| 0                     | 1           |                   |           |            |
| 1                     | 2           |                   |           |            |
| 2                     | 0           |                   |           |            |
| 3                     | 3           |                   |           |            |
| 4                     | 4           |                   |           |            |
| 5                     | 5           |                   |           |            |
| 6                     | 6           |                   |           |            |
| 7                     | 7           |                   |           |            |
| Monitoring            |             | queue             | operation |            |
Usetheshowinterfacequeuescommandtodisplaythetraffictransmittedperqueue,andthenumberof
packetsdroppedduetothequeuebeingfull.(Tx Bytesisavailableonthe6100SwitchSeries.)For
example:
QoSconfiguration |20

| switch#   | show         | interface | 1/1/1             | queues      |       |          |     |
| --------- | ------------ | --------- | ----------------- | ----------- | ----- | -------- | --- |
| Interface | 1/1/1        | is        | (Administratively |             | down) |          |     |
| Admin     | state        | is down   |                   |             |       |          |     |
| State     | information: |           | admin_down        |             |       |          |     |
|           | Tx Packets   |           |                   | Tx          | Bytes | Tx Drops |     |
| Q0        |              | 100       |                   |             | 8000  |          | 0   |
| Q1        | 1234567      |           |                   | 12345678908 |       |          | 5   |
| Q2        |              | 0         |                   |             | 0     |          | 0   |
| Q3        |              | 0         |                   |             | 0     |          | 0   |
| Q4        |              | 0         |                   |             | 0     |          | 0   |
| Q5        |              | 0         |                   |             | 0     |          | 0   |
| Q6        |              | 0         |                   |             | 0     |          | 0   |
| Q7        |              | 0         |                   |             | 0     |          | 0   |
Tx Bytes:Totalbytestransmitted.Thebytecountmayincludepacketheadersandinternalmetadatathat
areremovedbeforethepacketistransmitted.Packetheadersaddedwhenthepacketistransmittedmay
notbeincluded.
Tx Packets:Totalpacketstransmitted.
Tx Drops:Thenumberofpacketsdroppedbyaqueuebeforeitwassent.Whentrafficcannotbe
forwardedoutanegressinterface,itbacksupatingress.Themoreservicingassignedtoaqueuebya
scheduleprofile,thelesslikelytrafficdestinedforthatqueuewillbackupandbedropped.TxDropsshows
thesumofpacketsthatweredroppedacrossalllinemodules(duetoinsufficientcapacity)bytheingress
VirtualOutputQueues(VOQs)destinedfortheegressport.
AOS-CX10.07QualityofServiceGuide|(6100SwitchSeries) 21

Chapter 4

QoS commands

QoS commands

apply qos

Syntax

apply qos [queue-profile <QUEUE-NAME>] schedule-profile <SCHEDULE-NAME>
no apply qos schedule-profile <SCHEDULE-NAME>

Description

Applies a queue profile and schedule profile globally to all Ethernet and LAG interfaces on the switch, or
applies a schedule profile to a specific interface. When applied globally, the specified schedule profile is
configured only on Ethernet interfaces and LAGs that do not already have their own schedule profile.

The same profile can be applied both globally and locally to an interface. This guarantees that an interface
always uses the specified profile, even if the global profile is changed.

The no form of this command removes the specified schedule profile from an interface and the interface
uses the global schedule profile. This is the only way to remove a schedule profile override from the
interface.

Interfaces may shut down briefly during reconfiguration.

Command context

config
config-if
config-lag-if

Parameters

queue-profile <QUEUE-NAME>

Specifies the name of the queue profile to apply. Range: 1 to 64 alphanumeric characters, including period
(.), underscore (_), and hyphen (-). This parameter is not supported in the config-if context.
schedule-profile <SCHEDULE-NAME>

Specifies the name of the schedule profile to apply. Range: 1 to 64 alphanumeric characters, including period
(.), underscore (_), and hyphen (-).

Authority

Administrators or local user group members with execution rights for this command.

Usage

n The switch must always have a globally-applied queue and schedule profile. To stop using a given profile,

apply a different profile.

n For a queue profile to be complete and ready to be applied, all eight CoS values must be mapped to a

queue.

AOS-CX 10.07 Quality of Service Guide | (6100 Switch Series)

22

Forascheduleprofiletobecompleteandreadytobeapplied,itmustdefineallqueuesspecifiedinthe
n
queueprofile.Allqueuesmustusethesamealgorithm,exceptforthehighestnumberedqueue,which
canbestrict.
n Boththequeueprofileandthescheduleprofilemustspecifythesamenumberofqueues.
n Scheduleprofilescanbemodifiedwhileapplied,butonlyinwayswhereasinglecommandwillnotresult
intheprofilebecominginvalid.Forexample,queue7canhavethealgorithmchanged,andweighted
queuescanhavetheirweightschanged.
Queuesmustbeconsecutivelydefinedstartingatqueuenumberzero.Forexample,afour-queueprofile
n
withpriorityvaluesdefinedforqueues0,1,2,3isvalid,butafour-queueprofilewhichdefinespriority
valuesforqueues1,3,5,and7isnot.
n Therecanbeonly2,4,or8queuesinaqueueprofileconfigurationandthequeuesmustbe
consecutivelynumberedstartingatzero.
n Allqueuesmustusethesamealgorithmexceptforthehighestnumberedqueue,whichmaybestrict.
Ifthenumberofqueueswaschangedfromthepreviousqueueprofiletothenewone,anyEthernetorLAG
interfaceswithlocallyappliedscheduleprofileswillprogramthenewlyappliedglobalschedule-profile.The
showrunning-configinterfacecommandwilllisttheexistingapplyqosschedule-profilecommandwitha
commentdescribingtheactualprofileapplied:
Examples
ThefollowingcommandsillustrateavalidconfigurationwhereeveryCoSvalueisassignedtoaqueueandall
assignedqueuesaredefined.
| switch(config)# | qos trust         | cos |     |     |
| --------------- | ----------------- | --- | --- | --- |
| switch(config)# | qos queue-profile |     | Q1  |     |
switch(config)#
|                 | map queue            | 0 cos 0 |             |     |
| --------------- | -------------------- | ------- | ----------- | --- |
| switch(config)# | map queue            | 1 cos 1 |             |     |
| switch(config)# | map queue            | 2 cos 2 |             |     |
| switch(config)# | map queue            | 3 cos 3 |             |     |
| switch(config)# | map queue            | 4 cos 4 |             |     |
| switch(config)# | map queue            | 5 cos 5 |             |     |
| switch(config)# | map queue            | 6 cos 6 |             |     |
| switch(config)# | map queue            | 7 cos 7 |             |     |
| switch(config)# | qos schedule-profile |         | S1          |     |
| switch(config)# | min-bandwidth        | queue   | 0 percent 5 |     |
switch(config)#
|                 | min-bandwidth | queue         | 1 percent 5         |     |
| --------------- | ------------- | ------------- | ------------------- | --- |
| switch(config)# | min-bandwidth | queue         | 2 percent 10        |     |
| switch(config)# | min-bandwidth | queue         | 3 percent 10        |     |
| switch(config)# | min-bandwidth | queue         | 4 percent 20        |     |
| switch(config)# | min-bandwidth | queue         | 5 percent 20        |     |
| switch(config)# | min-bandwidth | queue         | 6 percent 10        |     |
| switch(config)# | min-bandwidth | queue         | 7 percent 20        |     |
| switch(config)# | apply qos     | queue-profile | Q1 schedule-profile | S1  |
ThefollowingcommandsillustrateaninvalidconfigurationbecauseCoS2isnotassignedtoaqueue.
switch(config)#
|                 | qos trust         | cos     |     |     |
| --------------- | ----------------- | ------- | --- | --- |
| switch(config)# | qos queue-profile |         | Q1  |     |
| switch(config)# | map queue         | 0 cos 0 |     |     |
| switch(config)# | map queue         | 1 cos 1 |     |     |
| switch(config)# | map queue         | 3 cos 3 |     |     |
| switch(config)# | map queue         | 4 cos 4 |     |     |
| switch(config)# | map queue         | 5 cos 5 |     |     |
| switch(config)# | map queue         | 6 cos 6 |     |     |
QoScommands |23

| switch(config)# |     | map queue | 7 cos 7 |     |     |
| --------------- | --- | --------- | ------- | --- | --- |
switch(config)#
|                 |     | qos schedule-profile |                   | S1                  |     |
| --------------- | --- | -------------------- | ----------------- | ------------------- | --- |
| switch(config)# |     | min-bandwidth        | queue 0           | percent 5           |     |
| switch(config)# |     | min-bandwidth        | queue 1           | percent 5           |     |
| switch(config)# |     | min-bandwidth        | queue 3           | percent 10          |     |
| switch(config)# |     | min-bandwidth        | queue 4           | percent 20          |     |
| switch(config)# |     | min-bandwidth        | queue 5           | percent 20          |     |
| switch(config)# |     | min-bandwidth        | queue 6           | percent 10          |     |
| switch(config)# |     | min-bandwidth        | queue 7           | percent 20          |     |
| switch(config)# |     | apply                | qos queue-profile | Q1 schedule-profile | S1  |
ApplyingtheQoSprofilemyprofileandthescheduleprofilemyscheduletoallinterfacesthatdonothave
anappliedinterface-specificscheduleprofile:
switch(config)# apply qos queue-profile myprofile schedule-profile myschedule
| map | queue |     |     |     |     |
| --- | ----- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
Syntax
| map queue | <QUEUE-NUMBER>       |     | cos <PRIORITY-NUMBER>   |     |     |
| --------- | -------------------- | --- | ----------------------- | --- | --- |
| no map    | queue <QUEUE-NUMBER> |     | [cos <PRIORITY-NUMBER>] |     |     |
Description
AssignsaCoSvaluetoaqueueinaqueueprofile.Bydefault,thelargerthequeuenumberthehigherits
priority.AqueuewithoutaCoSvalueassignedtoitisnotusedtostorepackets.Thesamequeuecanbe
assignedmultipleCoSvalues.
ThenoformofthiscommandremovesthespecifiedCoSvaluefromaspecificqueue.IfnoCoSvalue
numberisspecified,thenallCoSvaluesareremovedfromthequeue.
Commandcontext
config-queue
Parameters
<QUEUE-NUMBER>
Specifiesthequeuenumber.Range:0to7.
<PRIORITY-NUMBER>
SpecifiestheCoSvalue.Range:0to7,where0isthelowestpriorityand7isthehighest.
Authority
Administratorsorlocalusergroupmemberswithexecutionrightsforthiscommand.
Usage
Thefollowingcommandsillustrateavalidconfiguration,whereeveryCoSvalueisassignedtoaqueue.
| map | queue 0 cos | 0   |     |     |     |
| --- | ----------- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| map | queue 1 cos | 1   |     |     |     |
| map | queue 1 cos | 2   |     |     |     |
| map | queue 3 cos | 3   |     |     |     |
| map | queue 4 cos | 4   |     |     |     |
AOS-CX10.07QualityofServiceGuide|(6100SwitchSeries) 24

| map queue | 5 cos 5 |     |     |
| --------- | ------- | --- | --- |
| map queue | 5 cos 6 |     |     |
| map queue | 5 cos 7 |     |     |
Thefollowingcommandsillustrateaninvalidconfiguration,becauseCoSvalue2isnotassignedtoaqueue.
| map queue | 0 cos 0 |     |     |
| --------- | ------- | --- | --- |
| map queue | 1 cos 1 |     |     |
| map queue | 2 cos 3 |     |     |
| map queue | 3 cos 4 |     |     |
| map queue | 4 cos 5 |     |     |
| map queue | 5 cos 6 |     |     |
Examples
Assigningpriority7toqueue7inprofilemyprofile:
| switch(config)#       | qos | queue-profile | myprofile |
| --------------------- | --- | ------------- | --------- |
| switch(config-queue)# |     | map queue     | 7 cos 7   |
Removingpriority7fromqueue7inprofilemyprofile:
| switch(config)#       | qos | queue-profile | myprofile     |
| --------------------- | --- | ------------- | ------------- |
| switch(config-queue)# |     | no map        | queue 7 cos 7 |
min-bandwidth
Syntax
| min-bandwidth    | queue <QUEUE-NUMBER> |                | percent <VALUE> |
| ---------------- | -------------------- | -------------- | --------------- |
| no min-bandwidth | queue                | <QUEUE-NUMBER> |                 |
Description
AssignstheGuaranteedMinimumBandwidth(GMB)algorithmandapercentageofbandwidthtoaqueue.
GMBallocatesavailablebandwidthamongallnon-emptyqueuesinrelationtotheirconfiguredminimum
bandwidth.Non-emptyqueuesareservicedfirstinstrictorderuptotheirminimumbandwidth.Ifthereis
anyremainingbandwidth,theschedulerwillstrictlyserviceanyremainingnon-emptyqueues.
ThenoformofthiscommandonlyclearsthealgorithmforaqueueifGMBhasbeenassigned.
Commandcontext
config-schedule
Parameters
<QUEUE-NUMBER>
Specifiesthequeuenumber.Range:0to7.
<VALUE>
SpecifiesbandwidthpercentageusedforGMBscheduling.Range:0to100.
Authority
Administratorsorlocalusergroupmemberswithexecutionrightsforthiscommand.
QoScommands |25

Examples
Assigningqueue0ofscheduleprofileS1theGMBschedulingalgorithmwithminimumbandwidthof5
percent:
| switch(config)#          | qos | schedule-profile | S1  |                 |     |
| ------------------------ | --- | ---------------- | --- | --------------- | --- |
| switch(config-schedule)# |     | min-bandwidth    |     | queue 0 percent | 5   |
RemovingGMBfromqueue0:
| switch(config)#          | qos   | schedule-profile | s1  |         |     |
| ------------------------ | ----- | ---------------- | --- | ------- | --- |
| switch(config-schedule)# |       | no min-bandwidth |     | queue 0 |     |
| name                     | queue |                  |     |         |     |
Syntax
| name queue    | <QUEUE-NUMBER> | <DESCRIPTION> |     |     |     |
| ------------- | -------------- | ------------- | --- | --- | --- |
| no name queue | <QUEUE-NUMBER> |               |     |     |     |
Description
Assignsadescriptiontoaqueueinaqueueprofile.Thisisforidentificationpurposesandhasnoeffecton
configuration.
Thenoformofthiscommandremovesthedescriptionassociatedwithaqueue.
Commandcontext
config-queue
Parameters
<QUEUE-NUMBER>
Specifiesthequeuenumber.Range:0to7.
<DESCRIPTION>
Specifiesaqueuedescriptionforidentificationpurposes.Range:1to64alphanumericcharacters,
includingperiod(.),underscore(_),andhyphen(-).
Authority
Administratorsorlocalusergroupmemberswithexecutionrightsforthiscommand.
Examples
Assigningthedescriptionpriority-traffictoqueue7:
| switch(config)#       | qos | queue-profile | myprofile          |     |     |
| --------------------- | --- | ------------- | ------------------ | --- | --- |
| switch(config-queue)# |     | name queue    | 7 priority-traffic |     |     |
Removingthedescriptionfromqueue7:
| switch(config)# | qos | queue-profile | myprofile |     |     |
| --------------- | --- | ------------- | --------- | --- | --- |
switch(config-queue)#
|     |     | no name | queue 7 |     |     |
| --- | --- | ------- | ------- | --- | --- |
AOS-CX10.07QualityofServiceGuide|(6100SwitchSeries) 26

qos cos
Syntax
| qos cos <CODE-POINT> |     |     |     |
| -------------------- | --- | --- | --- |
no qos cos
Description
ConfiguresaCoSPCPremarkforanEthernetorLAGinterface.Packetsthatingressontheinterfaceare
remarkedategressusingtheconfiguredCoSPCPvalue.
TheremarkonlyoccurswhenQoStrustmodeontheinterfaceissettonone.
IfQoStrustmodeisnotsettonone,thentheremarkisignored,andthefollowingcommandswillshowthe
CoSremarkstatusasignored (incompatible Port Access Trust configuration)ornot applied'
| (incompatible | QoS | global/port | Trust configuration): |
| ------------- | --- | ----------- | --------------------- |
showrunning-configuration
n
n showinterface<PORT-NUM>
| show interface |     | <PORT-NUM> | qos |
| -------------- | --- | ---------- | --- |
n
ThenoformofthiscommandremovesaCoSremarkonaninterface.
Commandcontext
config-if
Parameters
<CODE-POINT>
Specifiesan802.1VLANpriorityCoSvalue.Range:0to7.
Authority
Administratorsorlocalusergroupmemberswithexecutionrightsforthiscommand.
Examples
ConfiguringaCoSremarkof3oninterface1/1/1:
| switch(config)# |     | interface | 1/1/1 |
| --------------- | --- | --------- | ----- |
switch(config-if)#
|                    |     | qos | trust none |
| ------------------ | --- | --- | ---------- |
| switch(config-if)# |     | qos | cos 3      |
DeletingaCoSremarkof3oninterface1/1/1:
| switch(config)#    |     | interface | 1/1/1   |
| ------------------ | --- | --------- | ------- |
| switch(config-if)# |     | no        | qos cos |
qos dscp
Syntax
| qos dscp <CODE-POINT> |     |     |     |
| --------------------- | --- | --- | --- |
no qos dscp
Description
QoScommands |27

Configures a differentiated services code point (DSCP) remark for an Ethernet or LAG interface. IPV4 and
IPV6 packets that ingress on the interface are remarked at egress using the configured DSCP value.

The remark only occurs when QoS trust mode on the interface is set to none. If a DSCP remark is configured
and then trust mode is subsequently set to cos or dscp, then the DSCP remark is ignored.

The following commands will show the remark status as ignored (incompatible Port Access Trust
configuration) or not applied (incompatible QoS global or port trust configuration):

n show running-configuration

n show interface <INTERFACE-NAME>

n show interface <INTERFACE-NAME> qos

The no form of this command removes a CoS remark on an interface.

Command context

config-if
config-lag-if

Parameters

<CODE-POINT>

Specifies an IP differentiated services code point value. Range: 0 to 63.

Authority

Administrators or local user group members with execution rights for this command.

Usage

Order of operation for arriving IPv4 or IPv6 packets:

1. The CoS metadata is assigned from the DSCP map entry indexed by the DSCP remark value.

2.

If a CoS remark is also configured along with the DSCP remark, the CoS remark value will be assigned
to the packet's CoS metadata.

3. The CoS metadata and queue profile are then used to determine the queue for the packet. If the

packet is transmitted with an 802.1Q VLAN tag, the PCP will be remarked to match the CoS metadata.

For arriving non-IP packets:

The CoS metadata is assigned from the DSCP map entry indexed by the DSCP remark value. This CoS value
and the queue profile are used to select the queue for packet scheduling. The PCP of tagged non-IP packets
will be remarked to this CoS value.

Examples

Configuring a DSCP remark of 43 on interface 1/1/1:

switch(config)# interface 1/1/1
switch(config-if)# qos trust none
switch(config-if)# qos dscp 43

Deleting a DSCP remark of 43 on interface 1/1/1:

switch(config)# interface 1/1/1
switch(config-if)# no dscp 43

AOS-CX 10.07 Quality of Service Guide | (6100 Switch Series)

28

qos dscp-map
Syntax
| qos dscp-map    | <CODE-POINT> | [cos <DESCRIPTION>] |
| --------------- | ------------ | ------------------- |
| no qos dscp-map | <CODE-POINT> |                     |
Description
DefinestheCoSassignedtoincomingpacketsforaspecificIPdifferentiatedservicescodepoint(DSCP)
value.TheDSCPmapvaluesareusedtoprioritizeincomingpacketswhenQoStrustmodeissettodscp.
ToseethedefaultDSCPmapsettings,usethefollowingcommand:
| switch#  | show qos dscp-map | default   |
| -------- | ----------------- | --------- |
| DSCP     | code_point        | cos name  |
| -------- | ----------        | --- ----- |
| 000000   | 0                 | 0 CS0     |
| 000001   | 1                 | 0         |
| 000010   | 2                 | 0         |
| 000011   | 3                 | 0         |
| 000100   | 4                 | 0         |
| 000101   | 5                 | 0         |
| 000110   | 6                 | 0         |
| 000111   | 7                 | 0         |
| 001000   | 8                 | 1 CS1     |
| 001001   | 9                 | 1         |
| 001010   | 10                | 1 AF11    |
| 001011   | 11                | 1         |
| 001100   | 12                | 1 AF12    |
| 001101   | 13                | 1         |
| 001110   | 14                | 1 AF13    |
| 001111   | 15                | 1         |
| 010000   | 16                | 2 CS2     |
| 010001   | 17                | 2         |
| 010010   | 18                | 2 AF21    |
| 010011   | 19                | 2         |
| 010100   | 20                | 2 AF22    |
| 010101   | 21                | 2         |
| 010110   | 22                | 2 AF23    |
| 010111   | 23                | 2         |
| 011000   | 24                | 3 CS3     |
| 011001   | 25                | 3         |
| 011010   | 26                | 3 AF31    |
| 011011   | 27                | 3         |
| 011100   | 28                | 3 AF32    |
| 011101   | 29                | 3         |
| 011110   | 30                | 3 AF33    |
| 011111   | 31                | 3         |
| 100000   | 32                | 4 CS4     |
| 100001   | 33                | 4         |
| 100010   | 34                | 4 AF41    |
| 100011   | 35                | 4         |
| 100100   | 36                | 4 AF42    |
| 100101   | 37                | 4         |
| 100110   | 38                | 4 AF43    |
| 100111   | 39                | 4         |
| 101000   | 40                | 5 CS5     |
| 101001   | 41                | 5         |
| 101010   | 42                | 5         |
| 101011   | 43                | 5         |
| 101100   | 44                | 5         |
| 101101   | 45                | 5         |
QoScommands |29

| 101110 46 | 5 EF  |     |
| --------- | ----- | --- |
| 101111 47 | 5     |     |
| 110000 48 | 6 CS6 |     |
| 110001 49 | 6     |     |
| 110010 50 | 6     |     |
| 110011 51 | 6     |     |
| 110100 52 | 6     |     |
| 110101 53 | 6     |     |
| 110110 54 | 6     |     |
| 110111 55 | 6     |     |
| 111000 56 | 7 CS7 |     |
| 111001 57 | 7     |     |
| 111010 58 | 7     |     |
| 111011 59 | 7     |     |
| 111100 60 | 7     |     |
| 111101 61 | 7     |     |
| 111110 62 | 7     |     |
| 111111 63 | 7     |     |
Thenoformofthiscommandrestorestheassignmentsforacodepointtothedefaultsetting.
Commandcontext
config
Parameters
<CODE-POINT>
SpecifiesanIPdifferentiatedservicescodepoint.Range:0to63.Default:0.
cos <COS-CODE-POINT>
Specifiesan802.1VLANpriorityCoSremarkvalue.Range:0to7.Default0
name <DESCRIPTION>
SpecifiesadescriptionfortheDSCPsetting.Thenameisusedforidentificationonly,andhasnoeffect
onqueueconfiguration.Range:1to64alphanumericcharacters,includingperiod(.),underscore(_),and
hyphen(-).
Authority
Administratorsorlocalusergroupmemberswithexecutionrightsforthiscommand.
Examples
Settingcodepoint41toaCoSof6:
| switch(config)# | qos dscp-map | 41 cos 6 |
| --------------- | ------------ | -------- |
Settingcodepoint41tothedefaultvalue:
| switch(config)# | no qos dscp-map | 41  |
| --------------- | --------------- | --- |
qos queue-profile
Syntax
| qos queue-profile    | <NAME> |     |
| -------------------- | ------ | --- |
| no qos queue-profile | <NAME> |     |
AOS-CX10.07QualityofServiceGuide|(6100SwitchSeries) 30

Description

Creates a new QoS queue profile and switches to the config-queue context for the profile. Or, if the
specified QoS queue profile exists, this command switches to the config-queue context for the profile.

A queue profile maps queues to local-priority values.

A queue profile named factory-default is defined by default and is automatically applied to all interfaces. It
cannot be edited or deleted. Use the command show qos queue-profile factory-default to view this
profile. Do not use show running-configuration, as it will only display changes from the initial values.

The no form of this command removes the specified QoS queue profile. Only profiles that are not currently
applied can be removed.

Command context

config

Parameters

<NAME>

Specifies the name of the QoS queue profile to create or configure. Range: 1 to 64 alphanumeric
characters, including period (.), underscore (_), and hyphen (-).

Authority

Administrators or local user group members with execution rights for this command.

Examples

Creating the profile myprofile:

switch(config)# qos queue-profile myprofile
switch(config-queue)#

Deleting the profile myprofile:

switch(config)# no qos queue-profile myprofile

qos schedule-profile

Syntax

qos schedule-profile <NAME>
no qos schedule-profile <NAME>

Description

Creates a QoS schedule profile and switches to the config-schedule context for the profile. If the specified
schedule profile exists, this command switches to the config-schedule context for the profile. The
schedule profile determines the order in which queues are selected to transmit a packet, and the amount of
service defined for each queue.

Queues in a schedule profile are numbered consecutively starting from zero. Queue zero is the lowest
priority queue. The larger the queue number, the higher priority the queue has in scheduling algorithms.

A profile named factory-default is defined by default and applied to all interfaces. It cannot be edited or
deleted. To see its settings, use the command:

QoS commands | 31

| switch#   | show qos schedule-profile |         | factory-default    |
| --------- | ------------------------- | ------- | ------------------ |
| queue_num | algorithm                 | percent | max-bandwidth_kbps |
| --------- | -------------             | ------- | ------------------ |
| 0         | min-bandwidth             | 2       |                    |
| 1         | min-bandwidth             | 3       |                    |
| 2         | min-bandwidth             | 30      |                    |
| 3         | min-bandwidth             | 10      |                    |
| 4         | min-bandwidth             | 10      |                    |
| 5         | min-bandwidth             | 10      |                    |
| 6         | min-bandwidth             | 15      |                    |
| 7         | min-bandwidth             | 20      |                    |
Aprofilenamedstrictispredefinedandcannotbeeditedordeleted.Thestrictprofileservicesallqueuesof
thequeueprofiletowhichitisapplied,usingthestrictpriorityalgorithm.
Ascheduleprofilemustbedefinedonallinterfacesatalltimes.
Therearetwopermittedconfigurationsforascheduleprofile:
1. Allqueuesusethesameschedulingalgorithm(forexample,GMB).
2. Thehighestqueuenumberusesstrictpriority,andallremaining(lower)queuesusethesame
algorithm(forexample,GMB).ThissupportspriorityschedulingbehaviornecessaryfortheIEFTRFC
3246ExpeditedForwardingspecification(https://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc3246).
Onlylimitedchangescanbemadetoanappliedscheduleprofile:
n ThepercentageofaGMBqueue.
Thebandwidthofastrictqueue.
n
ThealgorithmofthehighestnumberedqueuecanbeswappedbetweenGMBandstrict,andviceversa.
n
ApplicabletoREST:Anyotherchangeswillresultinanunusablescheduleprofile,andtheswitchwillrevertto
thefactory-defaultprofileuntiltheprofileiscorrected.
ThenoformofthiscommandremovesthespecifiedQoSscheduleprofilewhenitisnotapplied.Only
profilesthatarenotcurrentlyappliedtoaninterfacecanberemoved.
Commandcontext
config
Parameters
<NAME>
SpecifiesthenameoftheQoSscheduleprofiletocreateorconfigure.Range:1to64alphanumeric
characters,includingperiod(.),underscore(_),andhyphen(-).
Authority
Administratorsorlocalusergroupmemberswithexecutionrightsforthiscommand.
Examples
Creatingthescheduleprofilemyschedule:
| switch(config)# | qos schedule-profile |     | myschedule |
| --------------- | -------------------- | --- | ---------- |
switch(config-schedule)#
Deletingthescheduleprofilemyschedule:
AOS-CX10.07QualityofServiceGuide|(6100SwitchSeries) 32

switch(config)# no qos schedule-profile myschedule

qos trust

Syntax

qos trust {none | cos | dscp}
no qos trust

Description

Configures one of three modes that are applied globally on all Ethernet interfaces and LAGs that have not
applied their own trust mode. Trust mode determines whether VLAN or IP headers are used to assign CoS

values to ingress packets.

In the config context:

n This command sets the trust mode that is globally applied to all interfaces that do not have a trust mode

configured.

n The no form of this command restores all interfaces that do not currently have a trust mode configured

to the default setting.

In the config-if context:

n This command sets the trust mode override for a specific interface.

n The no form of this command clears a trust mode override. The interface then uses the global setting.

This is the only way to remove a trust mode override.

Command context

config
config-if
config-lag-if

Parameters

none

Ignores all packet headers. Ingress packets are assigned CoS value zero.

cos

For 802.1 VLAN-tagged packets, use the priority code point field from the outermost VLAN header to
assign the CoS value. For untagged packets, the CoS value is assigned to zero. Default.

dscp

For IP packets, use the DSCP as the index into the DSCP Map table to obtain the CoS value for the
packet. For non-IP packets, the CoS value is assigned to zero.

Authority

Administrators or local user group members with execution rights for this command.

Example

Setting the global trust mode to dscp, which is applied to all interfaces that do not already have an
individual trust mode configured. An override is then applied to interface 2/2/2, and LAG 100, setting trust
mode to cos:

QoS commands | 33

switch(config)# qos trust dscp
switch(config)# interface 2/2/2
switch(config-if)# qos trust cos
switch(config-if)# interface lag 100
switch(config-if)# qos trust cos

WARNING: QoS port remark configurations are not applied when the QoS trust mode is mode. This warning

message is seen if a port trust command other than trust none is attempted when there is already a remark

configuration on the port. To restore the old remark configuration, configure the port trust mode to none.

WARNING: QoS port remark configurations are not applied when the global QoS trust mode is mode. This warning

message is seen if a port no qos trust command is attempted when there is already a remark configuration on the

port and the global trust mode is not none. To re-apply the remark configuration, set the port trust mode to none.

rate-limit

Syntax

rate-limit {broadcast | multicast | unknown-unicast | icmp {ip-all | ipv4 | ipv6}} <RATE>
kbps
no rate-limit {broadcast | multicast | unknown-unicast | icmp}

Description

Sets the amount of traffic of a specific type that can ingress on an Ethernet interface, or on each port of a
LAG interface. Rate limits are enforced separately on each individual member of a LAG, not on the LAG as a
whole.

The no form of this command removes the traffic limit for the specified traffic type.

Command context

config-if

Parameters

{broadcast | multicast | unknown-unicast| icmp {ip-all | ipv4 |ipv6}}

Specifies the type of ingress traffic to which the rate limit applies: broadcast, multicast, unknown-unicast,
or ICMP.

The multicast rate limit affects multicast and broadcast traffic. The broadcast rate limit only affects
broadcast traffic. When both types are applied to the same interface, broadcast packets are limited to
the lower of the two rate values. Layer 2 BPDU packets, like spanning tree, are also included in the
multicast rate limit.

Unknown-unicast packets may be intended for devices whose addresses have temporarily aged out of
network forwarding caches. Configuring rate limits can help provide balance between necessary and
flooded traffic.

The ICMP rate limit can be configured to apply to IPv4, IPv6, or all IP traffic. Only one ICMP rate-limit can
be configured at a time. Applying a new ICMP rate-limit replaces any previous ICMP rate-limit.

<RATE>

AOS-CX 10.07 Quality of Service Guide | (6100 Switch Series)

34

Specifies the rate limit. Range: 64 to 100000000 kbps (in steps of 64 kbps). The actual rate limit varies
with steps approximately equal to the minimum value. Verify the actual rate limit using the command
show interface <INTERFACE-NAME>.

Authority

Administrators or local user group members with execution rights for this command.

Examples

Limiting broadcast traffic to 1024kbps on interface 1/1/3:

switch(config)# interface 1/1/3
switch(config-if)# rate-limit broadcast 1024 kbps

Limiting all ICMP IPv4 traffic to 10000kbps on interface 1/1/3:

switch(config)# interface 1/1/3
switch(config-if)# rate-limit icmp ipv4 1024 kbps

Viewing the results of the previous configuration settings.

switch# show interface 1/1/3 qos
Interface 1/1/3 is up

Admin state is up
qos trust cos (global)
qos queue-profile factory-default (global)
qos schedule-profile factory-default (global)
rate-limit unknown-unicast 1024 kbps (1024 actual)
rate-limit broadcast 1024 kbps (1100 actual)
rate-limit multicast 1024 kbps (1100 actual)
rate-limit icmp ip-all 1024 kbps (1024 actual)

switch# show interface 1/1/3

Interface 1/1/3 is up

Admin state is up
Link state: up for 3 minutes (since Thu Nov 26 17:56:14 UTC 2020)
Link transitions: 1
Description:
Hardware: Ethernet, MAC Address: f8:60:f0:c9:21:bc
MTU 1500
Type 1GbT
Full-duplex
qos trust cos
rate-limit unknown-unicast 1024 kbps (1024 actual)
rate-limit broadcast 1024 kbps (1100 actual)
rate-limit multicast 1024 kbps (1100 actual)
rate-limit icmp ip-all 1024 kbps (1024 actual)
Speed 1000 Mb/s
Auto-negotiation is on
Energy-Efficient Ethernet is disabled
Flow-control: off
Error-control: off
MDI mode: MDIX
VLAN Mode: access
Access VLAN: 1
Rx

0 total packets

0 total bytes

QoS commands | 35

|     |     | 0 unicast   |     | packets |     |           |     |
| --- | --- | ----------- | --- | ------- | --- | --------- | --- |
|     |     | 0 multicast |     | packets |     |           |     |
|     |     | 0 broadcast |     | packets |     |           |     |
|     |     | 0 errors    |     |         |     | 0 dropped |     |
|     |     | 0 CRC/FCS   |     |         |     | 0 pause   |     |
Tx
|      | 1057962   | total       | packets |         | 366066962 | total     | bytes |
| ---- | --------- | ----------- | ------- | ------- | --------- | --------- | ----- |
|      |           | 0 unicast   |         | packets |           |           |       |
|      |           | 0 multicast |         | packets |           |           |       |
|      | 1058039   | broadcast   |         | packets |           |           |       |
|      |           | 0 errors    |         |         |           | 0 dropped |       |
|      |           | 0 collision |         |         |           | 0 pause   |       |
| show | interface |             | queues  |         |           |           |       |
Syntax
| show interface |     | <INTERFACE-NAME> |     | queues |     |     |     |
| -------------- | --- | ---------------- | --- | ------ | --- | --- | --- |
Description
Displaysinterface-levelqueuestatistics.
Commandcontext
Operator(>)orManager(#)
Parameters
<INTERFACE-NAME>
SpecifiesthenameofaninterfaceorLAGontheswitch.Format:member/slot/portorlag <ID>.
Authority
OperatorsorAdministratorsorlocalusergroupmemberswithexecutionrightsforthiscommand.
Operatorscanexecutethiscommandfromtheoperatorcontext(>)only.
Usage
Statisticsinclude:
n Tx Bytes:Totalbytestransmitted.Thebytecountmayincludepacketheadersandinternalmetadata
thatareremovedbeforethepacketistransmitted.Packetheadersaddedwhenthepacketistransmitted
maynotbeincluded.ThebytecountincludesanypacketssubsequentlydroppedbyanegressACL.
Tx Packets:Totalpacketstransmitted.Thecountincludesanypacketssubsequentlydroppedbyan
n
egressACL.
Tx Drops:Totalpacketsdroppedbyanegressqueueduetoinsufficientcapacity.
n
Examples
| Showingqueuestatisticsforinterface |       |           |       | 1/1/5        |     |          |     |
| ---------------------------------- | ----- | --------- | ----- | ------------ | --- | -------- | --- |
| switch#                            | show  | interface |       | 1/1/5 queues |     |          |     |
| Interface                          |       | 5 is down |       |              |     |          |     |
| Admin                              | state | is up     |       |              |     |          |     |
|                                    |       | Tx        | Bytes | Tx Packets   |     | Tx Drops |     |
| Q0                                 |       |           |       | 0            | 0   |          | 3   |
AOS-CX10.07QualityofServiceGuide|(6100SwitchSeries) 36

| Q1                                 |                | 15356    |            | 73  | 0        |
| ---------------------------------- | -------------- | -------- | ---------- | --- | -------- |
| Q2                                 |                | 0        |            | 0   | 0        |
| Q3                                 |                | 0        |            | 0   | 0        |
| Q4                                 |                | 0        |            | 0   | 0        |
| Q5                                 |                | 0        |            | 0   | 0        |
| Q6                                 |                | 0        |            | 0   | 0        |
| Q7                                 |                | 0        |            | 0   | 0        |
| Showingqueuestatisticsforinterface |                |          | lag 1      |     |          |
| switch#                            | show interface | lag      | 1 queues   |     |          |
| Aggregate-name                     | lag1           |          |            |     |          |
| Aggregated-interfaces              |                | :        |            |     |          |
| 1/1/6 1/1/7                        |                |          |            |     |          |
| Speed 20000                        | Mb/s           |          |            |     |          |
|                                    |                | Tx Bytes | Tx Packets |     | Tx Drops |
| Q0                                 |                | 0        |            | 0   | 0        |
| Q1                                 |                | 0        |            | 0   | 0        |
| Q2                                 |                | 0        |            | 0   | 0        |
| Q3                                 |                | 0        |            | 0   | 0        |
| Q4                                 |                | 0        |            | 0   | 0        |
| Q5                                 |                | 0        |            | 0   | 0        |
| Q6                                 |                | 0        |            | 0   | 0        |
| Q7                                 |                | 3450     |            | 25  | 0        |
| show interface                     |                | qos      |            |     |          |
Syntax
| show interface | <INTERFACE-NAME> |     | qos |     |     |
| -------------- | ---------------- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
Description
ShowsvariousQoSsettingsforaspecificinterface.
Commandcontext
Operator(>)orManager(#)
Parameters
<INTERFACE-NAME>
Specifiesthenameofaninterfaceontheswitch.Format:member/slot/port or lag number.
[vsx-peer]
ShowstheoutputfromtheVSXpeerswitch.IftheswitchesdonothavetheVSXconfigurationortheISL
isdown,theoutputfromtheVSXpeerswitchisnotdisplayed.Thisparameterisavailableonswitches
thatsupportVSX.
Authority
OperatorsorAdministratorsorlocalusergroupmemberswithexecutionrightsforthiscommand.
Operatorscanexecutethiscommandfromtheoperatorcontext(>)only.
Examples
ShowingQoSsettingsforinterface1/1/5:
QoScommands |37

| switch#              | show interface |                 | 1/1/5      | qos                 |
| -------------------- | -------------- | --------------- | ---------- | ------------------- |
| Interface            | 1/1/5          | is up           |            |                     |
| Admin state          | is             | up              |            |                     |
| qos trust            | none           | (global)        |            |                     |
| qos queue-profile    |                | factory-default |            | (global)            |
| qos schedule-profile |                | eqs             | (override) |                     |
| qos cos              | 5              |                 |            |                     |
| qos dscp             | 47             |                 |            |                     |
| rate-limit           | broadcast      | 40000           | kbps       | (40000 actual)      |
| rate-limit           | icmp           | ip-all          | 10000      | kbps (10000 actual) |
|                      | Max-Bandwidth  |                 | Kbps       |                     |
| Q6                   |                | 100000          |            |                     |
| Q7                   |                | 150000          |            |                     |
| show qos             | cos-map        |                 |            |                     |
Syntax
| show qos cos-map | [default] |     |     |     |
| ---------------- | --------- | --- | --- | --- |
Description
ShowstheglobalQoSCoScodepointsettings,orthefactorydefaultsettings.
Commandcontext
Operator(>)orManager(#)
Parameters
[default]
ShowsthefactorydefaultCoScodepointsettings.
Authority
OperatorsorAdministratorsorlocalusergroupmemberswithexecutionrightsforthiscommand.
Operatorscanexecutethiscommandfromtheoperatorcontext(>)only.
Examples
ShowingthecurrentCoSmap:
| switch#    | show qos       | cos-map |         |                       |
| ---------- | -------------- | ------- | ------- | --------------------- |
| code_point | local_priority |         | color   | name                  |
| ---------- | -------------- |         | ------- | ----                  |
| 0          | 2              |         | green   | Bulk                  |
| 1          | 0              |         | green   | Scavenger             |
| 2          | 1              |         | green   | Best_Effort           |
| 3          | 3              |         | green   | Critical_Applications |
| 4          | 4              |         | green   | Video                 |
| 5          | 5              |         | green   | Voice                 |
| 6          | 6              |         | green   | Internetwork_Control  |
| 7          | 7              |         | green   | Network_Control       |
ShowingthedefaultCoSmap:
AOS-CX10.07QualityofServiceGuide|(6100SwitchSeries) 38

| switch#            | show           | qos cos-map | default                     |
| ------------------ | -------------- | ----------- | --------------------------- |
| code_point         | local_priority |             | color name                  |
| ----------         | -------------- |             | ------- ----                |
| 0                  | 1              |             | green Best_Effort           |
| 1                  | 0              |             | green Background            |
| 2                  | 2              |             | green Excellent_Effort      |
| 3                  | 3              |             | green Critical_Applications |
| 4                  | 4              |             | green Video                 |
| 5                  | 5              |             | green Voice                 |
| 6                  | 6              |             | green Internetwork_Control  |
| 7                  | 7              |             | green Network_Control       |
| (Color is reserved |                | for future  | use.)                       |
| show qos           | dscp-map       |             |                             |
Syntax
| show qos dscp-map |     | [default] |     |
| ----------------- | --- | --------- | --- |
Description
DisplaysthecurrentordefaultglobalQoSdscp-map.
Commandcontext
Operator(>)orManager(#)
Parameters
[default]
ShowsthefactorydefaultDSCPcodepointsettings.
Authority
OperatorsorAdministratorsorlocalusergroupmemberswithexecutionrightsforthiscommand.
Operatorscanexecutethiscommandfromtheoperatorcontext(>)only.
Examples
ShowingthecurrentQoSDSCPmap:
switch#
show qos dscp-map
| DSCP     | code_point | cos | name |
| -------- | ---------- | --- | ---- |
| -------- | ---------- | --- | ---- |
| 000000   | 0          | 0   | CS0  |
| 000001   | 1          | 0   |      |
| 000010   | 2          | 0   |      |
| 000011   | 3          | 0   |      |
| 000100   | 4          | 0   |      |
| 000101   | 5          | 0   |      |
...
| 101101 | 45  | 5   |     |
| ------ | --- | --- | --- |
| 101110 | 46  | 6   | new |
| 101111 | 47  | 5   |     |
| 110000 | 48  | 6   | CS6 |
...
| 111101 | 61  | 7   |     |
| ------ | --- | --- | --- |
| 111110 | 62  | 7   |     |
| 111111 | 63  | 7   |     |
QoScommands |39

ShowingthedefaultQoSDSCPmap:
| switch# show        | qos dscp-map | default |
| ------------------- | ------------ | ------- |
| DSCP code_point     | cos          | name    |
| -------- ---------- | ---          | ----    |
| 000000 0            | 0            | CS0     |
| 000001 1            | 0            |         |
| 000010 2            | 0            |         |
| 000011 3            | 0            |         |
| 000100 4            | 0            |         |
| 000101 5            | 0            |         |
...
| 101101 45 | 5   |     |
| --------- | --- | --- |
| 101110 46 | 5   |     |
| 101111 47 | 5   |     |
| 110000 48 | 6   | CS6 |
...
| 111100 60 | 7             |     |
| --------- | ------------- | --- |
| 111101 61 | 7             |     |
| 111110 62 | 7             |     |
| 111111 63 | 7             |     |
| show qos  | queue-profile |     |
Syntax
| show qos queue-profile | [<NAME> | | factory-default] |
| ---------------------- | ------- | ------------------ |
Description
Showsthestatusofallqueueprofiles,oraspecificqueueprofile.
Commandcontext
Operator(>)orManager(#)
Parameters
<NAME>
Specifiesthenameofaqueueprofile.Range1to64alphanumericcharacters,includingperiod(.),
underscore(_),andhyphen(-).
factory-default
Specifiesthefactorydefaultqueueprofile.
Authority
OperatorsorAdministratorsorlocalusergroupmemberswithexecutionrightsforthiscommand.
Operatorscanexecutethiscommandfromtheoperatorcontext(>)only.
Usage
Thestatusofaqueueprofilecanbe:
n Applied-Theprofileisactivelybeingusedbytheswitch.
n Complete-Theprofilemeetsthecriteriatobeapplied.
n Incomplete-Theprofiledoesnotmeetthecriteriatobeapplied.
Foraqueueprofiletobecompleteandreadytobeapplied:
AOS-CX10.07QualityofServiceGuide|(6100SwitchSeries) 40

Alleightcosvaluesmustbemappedtosomequeue.
n
Therecanbeonly2,4,or8queues.
n
Thequeuesmustbeconsecutivelynumberedstartingatzero.
n
Examples
Showingthestatusofallqueueprofiles
| switch# show   | qos queue-profile |     |     |
| -------------- | ----------------- | --- | --- |
| profile_status | profile_name      |     |     |
| -------------- | ------------      |     |     |
| applied        | dot1d             |     |     |
| complete       | factory-default   |     |     |
Showingthesettingsofthefactorydefaultqueueprofile
| switch# show | qos queue-profile | factory-default |     |
| ------------ | ----------------- | --------------- | --- |
| queue_num    | cos name          |                 |     |
| ---------    | --- ----          |                 |     |
| 0            | 1                 |                 |     |
| 1            | 0                 |                 |     |
| 2            | 2                 |                 |     |
| 3            | 3                 |                 |     |
| 4            | 4                 |                 |     |
| 5            | 5                 |                 |     |
| 6            | 6                 |                 |     |
| 7            | 7                 |                 |     |
| show qos     | schedule-profile  |                 |     |
Syntax
| show qos schedule-profile | [<NAME> | | factory-default | | strict] |
| ------------------------- | ------- | ----------------- | --------- |
Description
Showsthestatusofallscheduleprofiles,oraspecificscheduleprofile.
Commandcontext
Operator(>)orManager(#)
Parameters
<NAME>
Specifiesthenameofaqueueorscheduleprofile.Range:1to64alphanumericcharacters,including
period(.),underscore(_),andhyphen(-).
factory-default
Specifiesthefactorydefaultqueueprofile.
Authority
OperatorsorAdministratorsorlocalusergroupmemberswithexecutionrightsforthiscommand.
Operatorscanexecutethiscommandfromtheoperatorcontext(>)only.
Usage
QoScommands |41

Thestatusofascheduleprofilecanbe:
Applied-Theprofileisactivelybeingusedbyoneormoreports.
n
n Complete-Theprofilemeetsthecriteriatobeapplied.
n Incomplete-Theprofiledoesnotmeetthecriteriatobeapplied.
Forascheduleprofiletobecompleteandreadytobeapplieditmusthave:
n Analgorithmforeachqueuedefinedbytheappliedqueueprofile.
n Allqueuesmustusethesamealgorithmexceptforthehighestnumberedqueue,whichmaybestrict.
Examples
Showingthestatusofallscheduleprofiles
| switch#        | show qos schedule-profile |     |
| -------------- | ------------------------- | --- |
| profile_status | profile_name              |     |
| -------------- | ------------              |     |
| applied        | myschedule                |     |
| complete       | factory-default           |     |
| complete       | Test                      |     |
Showingtheconfigurationoffactorydefaultscheduleprofile
switch#
show qos schedule-profile factory-default
| queue_num | algorithm     | percent max-bandwidth_kbps |
| --------- | ------------- | -------------------------- |
| --------- | ------------- | ------- ------------------ |
| 0         | min-bandwidth | 2                          |
| 1         | min-bandwidth | 3                          |
| 2         | min-bandwidth | 30                         |
| 3         | min-bandwidth | 10                         |
| 4         | min-bandwidth | 10                         |
| 5         | min-bandwidth | 10                         |
| 6         | min-bandwidth | 15                         |
| 7         | min-bandwidth | 20                         |
| show qos  | trust         |                            |
Syntax
| show qos trust | [default] |     |
| -------------- | --------- | --- |
Description
ShowstheglobalQoStrustsettings,orthefactorydefaultsettings.
Commandcontext
Operator(>)orManager(#)
Parameters
default
ShowsthefactorydefaultQoStrustsettings.
Authority
AOS-CX10.07QualityofServiceGuide|(6100SwitchSeries) 42

OperatorsorAdministratorsorlocalusergroupmemberswithexecutionrightsforthiscommand.
Operatorscanexecutethiscommandfromtheoperatorcontext(>)only.
Examples
ShowingthecurrentQoStrustsettings:
| switch#   | show qos trust |     |     |
| --------- | -------------- | --- | --- |
| qos trust | cos            |     |     |
ShowingthedefaultQoStrustsettings:
| switch#      | show qos trust | default |     |
| ------------ | -------------- | ------- | --- |
| qos trust    | cos            |         |     |
| strict queue |                |         |     |
Syntax
| strict queue | <QUEUE-NUMBER>       | [[max-bandwidth | <BANDWIDTH>]] |
| ------------ | -------------------- | --------------- | ------------- |
| no strict    | queue <QUEUE-NUMBER> |                 |               |
Description
Assignsthestrictpriorityalgorithmtoaqueue.Strictpriorityservicesallpacketswaitinginaqueue,before
servicingthepacketsinlowerpriorityqueues.
Egressqueueshapingcanbeconfiguredusingthemax-bandwidthoptiontolimittheamountoftraffic
transmittedperoutputqueue.Thebufferassociatedwitheachegressqueuestorestheexcesstrafficto
smooththeoutputrate.Sustainedratesoftrafficabovethemaximumbandwidthwilleventuallyfillthe
outputqueuecausingtaildrops.Usethecommandshow interfacetodetermineifanytaildroperrors
haveoccurred.
Thenoformofthiscommandremovesthequeueconfigurationfromthescheduleprofile.Toremoveonly
egressqueueshaping,re-enterthestrictqueuecommandwithoutthemax-bandwidthparameter.
Commandcontext
config-schedule
Parameters
<QUEUE-NUMBER>
Specifiesthenumberofthequeue.Range:0to7.
| max-bandwidth | <BANDWIDTH> |     |     |
| ------------- | ----------- | --- | --- |
SpecifiesthemaximumbandwidthallowedonthequeueinKbps.Range:49to100000000.
Authority
Administratorsorlocalusergroupmemberswithexecutionrightsforthiscommand.
Examples
Assigningstrictprioritytoqueue7inthescheduleprofilemyschedule:
QoScommands |43

| switch(config)#          | qos schedule-profile | myschedule |
| ------------------------ | -------------------- | ---------- |
| switch(config-schedule)# | strict               | queue 7    |
Deletingstrictpriorityfromqueue7inthescheduleprofilemyschedule:
| switch(config)#          | qos schedule-profile | myschedule |
| ------------------------ | -------------------- | ---------- |
| switch(config-schedule)# | no strict            | queue 7    |
AOS-CX10.07QualityofServiceGuide|(6100SwitchSeries) 44

Support and Other Resources

Chapter 5

Support and Other Resources

Accessing Aruba Support

Aruba Support Services

https://www.arubanetworks.com/support-services/

Aruba Support Portal

https://asp.arubanetworks.com/

North America telephone

1-800-943-4526 (US & Canada Toll-Free Number)

+1-408-754-1200 (Primary - Toll Number)

+1-650-385-6582 (Backup - Toll Number - Use only when all other
numbers are not working)

International telephone

https://www.arubanetworks.com/support-services/contact-
support/

Be sure to collect the following information before contacting Support:

n Technical support registration number (if applicable)

n Product name, model or version, and serial number

n Operating system name and version

n Firmware version

n Error messages

n Product-specific reports and logs

n Add-on products or components

n Third-party products or components

Other useful sites

Other websites that can be used to find information:

Airheads social forums and Knowledge
Base

https://community.arubanetworks.com/

Software licensing

https://lms.arubanetworks.com/

End-of-Life information

https://www.arubanetworks.com/support-services/end-of-life/

Aruba software and documentation

https://asp.arubanetworks.com/downloads

Accessing Updates
You can access updates from the Aruba Support Portal or the HPE My Networking Website.

Aruba Support Portal

AOS-CX 10.07 Quality of Service Guide | (6100 Switch Series)

45

https://asp.arubanetworks.com/downloads

If you are unable to find your product in the Aruba Support Portal, you may need to search My Networking,
where older networking products can be found:

My Networking

https://www.hpe.com/networking/support

To view and update your entitlements, and to link your contracts and warranties with your profile, go to the
Hewlett Packard Enterprise Support Center More Information on Access to Support Materials page:

https://support.hpe.com/portal/site/hpsc/aae/home/

Access to some updates might require product entitlement when accessed through the Hewlett Packard
Enterprise Support Center. You must have an HP Passport set up with relevant entitlements.

Some software products provide a mechanism for accessing software updates through the product
interface. Review your product documentation to identify the recommended software update method.

To subscribe to eNewsletters and alerts:

https://asp.arubanetworks.com/notifications/subscriptions (requires an active Aruba Support Portal (ASP)
account to manage subscriptions). Security notices are viewable without an ASP account.

Warranty Information
To view warranty information for your product, go to https://www.arubanetworks.com/support-
services/product-warranties/.

Regulatory Information
To view the regulatory information for your product, view the Safety and Compliance Information for Server,
Storage, Power, Networking, and Rack Products, available at https://www.hpe.com/support/Safety-
Compliance-EnterpriseProducts

Additional regulatory information

Aruba is committed to providing our customers with information about the chemical substances in our
products as needed to comply with legal requirements, environmental data (company programs, product
recycling, energy efficiency), and safety information and compliance data, (RoHS and WEEE). For more
information, see https://www.arubanetworks.com/company/about-us/environmental-citizenship/.

Documentation Feedback
Aruba is committed to providing documentation that meets your needs. To help us improve the
documentation, send any errors, suggestions, or comments to Documentation Feedback (docsfeedback-
switching@hpe.com). When submitting your feedback, include the document title, part number, edition,
and publication date located on the front cover of the document. For online help content, include the
product name, product version, help edition, and publication date located on the legal notices page.

Support and Other Resources | 46