AOS-CX 10.14.xxxx CoPP
Guide

6200, 6300, 6400 Switch Series

Published: July 2024

Version: 1

Copyright Information

© Copyright 2024 Hewlett Packard Enterprise Development LP.

This product includes code licensed under certain open source licenses which require source
compliance. The corresponding source for these components is available upon request. This offer is
valid to anyone in receipt of this information and shall expire three years following the date of the final
distribution of this product version by Hewlett Packard Enterprise Company. To obtain such source
code, please check if the code is available in the HPE Software Center at
https://myenterpriselicense.hpe.com/cwp-ui/software but, if not, send a written request for specific
software version and product for which you want the open source code. Along with the request, please
send a check or money order in the amount of US $10.00 to:

Hewlett Packard Enterprise Company
Attn: General Counsel
WW Corporate Headquarters
1701 E Mossy Oaks Rd Spring, TX 77389
United States of America.

| 2

Notices

The information contained herein is subject to change without notice. The only warranties for Hewlett
Packard Enterprise products and services are set forth in the express warranty statements
accompanying such products and services. Nothing herein should be construed as constituting an
additional warranty. Hewlett Packard Enterprise shall not be liable for technical or editorial errors or
omissions contained herein.

Confidential computer software. Valid license from Hewlett Packard Enterprise required for possession,
use, or copying. Consistent with FAR 12.211 and 12.212, Commercial Computer Software, Computer
Software Documentation, and Technical Data for Commercial Items are licensed to the U.S. Government
under vendor's standard commercial license.

Links to third-party websites take you outside the Hewlett Packard Enterprise website. Hewlett Packard
Enterprise has no control over and is not responsible for information outside the Hewlett Packard
Enterprise website.

AOS-CX 10.14.xxxx CoPP Guide | (6200, 6300, 6400 Switches)

3

Contents
| About                               | this document                  |           | 5   |
| ----------------------------------- | ------------------------------ | --------- | --- |
| Applicableproducts                  |                                |           | 5   |
| Latestversionavailableonline        |                                |           | 5   |
| Commandsyntaxnotationconventions    |                                |           | 5   |
| Abouttheexamples                    |                                |           | 6   |
| Identifyingswitchportsandinterfaces |                                |           | 7   |
| Identifyingmodularswitchcomponents  |                                |           | 7   |
| Control                             | Plane Policing                 | (CoPP)    | 9   |
| Overview                            |                                |           | 9   |
| ConfiguringCoPP                     |                                |           | 9   |
| Actualratesinhardware               |                                |           | 10  |
| CoPPcommands                        |                                |           | 10  |
|                                     | Classesoftraffic               |           | 10  |
|                                     | applycopp-policy               |           | 12  |
|                                     | class                          |           | 13  |
|                                     | clearcopp-policystatistics     |           | 15  |
|                                     | copp-policy                    |           | 15  |
|                                     | default-class                  |           | 16  |
|                                     | resetcopp-policy               |           | 17  |
|                                     | showcopp-policy                |           | 18  |
|                                     | showcopp-policyfactory-default |           | 20  |
|                                     | showcopp-policystatistics      |           | 22  |
|                                     | showtechcopp                   |           | 23  |
| Support                             | and Other                      | Resources | 25  |
| AccessingHPEArubaNetworkingSupport  |                                |           | 25  |
| AccessingUpdates                    |                                |           | 26  |
| WarrantyInformation                 |                                |           | 26  |
| RegulatoryInformation               |                                |           | 26  |
| DocumentationFeedback               |                                |           | 26  |
4
AOS-CX10.14.xxxxCoPPGuide| (6200,6300,6400Switches)

Chapter 1

About this document

About this document

This document describes features of the AOS-CX network operating system. It is intended for
administrators responsible for installing, configuring, and managing Aruba switches on a network.

Applicable products

This document applies to the following products:

n HPE Aruba Networking 6200 Switch Series (JL724A, JL725A, JL726A, JL727A, JL728A, R8Q67A, R8Q68A,
R8Q69A, R8Q70A, R8Q71A, R8V08A, R8V09A, R8V10A, R8V11A, R8V12A, R8Q72A, JL724B, JL725B,
JL726B, JL727B, JL728B, S0M81A, S0M82A, S0M83A, S0M84A, S0M85A, S0M86A,  S0M87A,  S0M88A,
S0M89A,  S0M90A, S0G13A, S0G14A, S0G15A, S0G16A, S0G17A)

n HPE Aruba Networking 6300 Switch Series (JL658A, JL659A, JL660A, JL661A, JL662A, JL663A, JL664A,

JL665A, JL666A, JL667A, JL668A, JL762A, R8S89A, R8S90A, R8S91A, R8S92A, S0E91A, S0X44A, S3L75A,
S3L76A, S3L77A)

n HPE Aruba Networking 6400 Switch Series (R0X31A, R0X38B, R0X38C, R0X39B, R0X39C, R0X40B,
R0X40C, R0X41A, R0X41C, R0X42A, R0X42C, R0X43A, R0X43C, R0X44A, R0X44C, R0X45A, R0X45C,
R0X26A, R0X27A, JL741A, S0E48A,S0E48A #0D1, S1T83A, S1T83A #0D1)

Latest version available online

Updates to this document can occur after initial publication. For the latest versions of product
documentation, see the links provided in Support and Other Resources.

Command syntax notation conventions

Convention

example-text

Usage

Identifies commands and their options and operands, code examples,
filenames, pathnames, and output displayed in a command window. Items
that appear like the example text in the previous column are to be entered
exactly as shown and are required unless enclosed in brackets ([ ]).

example-text

In code and screen examples, indicates text entered by a user.

Any of the following:
n <example-text>
n <example-text>
n example-text

n example-text

Identifies a placeholder—such as a parameter or a variable—that you must
substitute with an actual value in a command or in code:

n For output formats where italic text cannot be displayed, variables
are enclosed in angle brackets (< >). Substitute the text—including
the enclosing angle brackets—with an actual value.

n For output formats where italic text can be displayed, variables

might or might not be enclosed in angle brackets. Substitute the

AOS-CX 10.14.xxxx CoPP Guide | (6200, 6300, 6400 Switches)

5

Convention

Usage

|

{ }

[ ]

… or

...

text including the enclosing angle brackets, if any, with an actual
value.

Vertical bar. A logical OR that separates multiple items from which you can
choose only one.
Any spaces that are on either side of the vertical bar are included for
readability and are not a required part of the command syntax.

Braces. Indicates that at least one of the enclosed items is required.

Brackets. Indicates that the enclosed item or items are optional.

Ellipsis:

n In code and screen examples, a vertical or horizontal ellipsis indicates an

omission of information.

n In syntax using brackets and braces, an ellipsis indicates items that can be

repeated. When an item followed by ellipses is enclosed in brackets, zero

or more items can be specified.

About the examples

Examples in this document are representative and might not match your particular switch or
environment.

The slot and port numbers in this document are for illustration only and might be unavailable on your
switch.

Understanding the CLI prompts

When illustrating the prompts in the command line interface (CLI), this document uses the generic term
switch, instead of the host name of the switch. For example:
switch>

The CLI prompt indicates the current command context. For example:
switch>

Indicates the operator command context.

switch#

Indicates the manager command context.

switch(CONTEXT-NAME)#

Indicates the configuration context for a feature. For example:

switch(config-if)#

Identifies the interface context.

Variable information in CLI prompts

In certain configuration contexts, the prompt may include variable information. For example, when in
the VLAN configuration context, a VLAN number appears in the prompt:
switch(config-vlan-100)#

When referring to this context, this document uses the syntax:
switch(config-vlan-<VLAN-ID>)#

Where <VLAN-ID> is a variable representing the VLAN number.

About this document | 6

Identifying switch ports and interfaces

Physical ports on the switch and their corresponding logical software interfaces are identified using the
format:
member/slot/port

On the Aruba 6200 Switch Series

n member: Member number of the switch in a Virtual Switching Framework (VSF) stack. Range: 1 to 8.

The primary switch is always member 1. If the switch is not a member of a VSF stack, then member is
1.

n slot: Always 1. This is not a modular switch, so there are no slots.

n port: Physical number of a port on the switch.

For example, the logical interface 1/1/4 in software is associated with physical port 4 in slot 1 on
member 1.

On the Aruba 6300 Switch Series

n member: Member number of the switch in a Virtual Switching Framework (VSF) stack. Range: 1 to 10.
The primary switch is always member 1. If the switch is not a member of a VSF stack, then member is
1.

n slot: Always 1. This is not a modular switch, so there are no slots.

n port: Physical number of a port on the switch.

For example, the logical interface 1/1/4 in software is associated with physical port 4 on member 1.

On the Aruba 6400 Switch Series

n member: Always 1. VSF is not supported on this switch.

n slot: Specifies physical location of a module in the switch chassis.

o Management modules are on the front of the switch in slots 1/1 and 1/2.

o Line modules are on the front of the switch starting in slot 1/3.

n port: Physical number of a port on a line module.

For example, the logical interface 1/3/4 in software is associated with physical port 4 in slot 3 on
member 1.

Identifying modular switch components

n Power supplies are on the front of the switch behind the bezel above the management modules.

Power supplies are labeled in software in the format: member/power supply:

o member: 1.

o power supply: 1 to 4.

n Fans are on the rear of the switch and are labeled in software as: member/tray/fan:

o member: 1.

o tray: 1 to 4.

o fan: 1 to 4.

n Fabric modules are not labeled on the switch but are labeled in software in the format:

member/module:

AOS-CX 10.14.xxxx CoPP Guide | (6200, 6300, 6400 Switches)

7

o member: 1.

o member: 1 or 2.

n The display module on the rear of the switch is not labeled with a member or slot number.

About this document | 8

Chapter 2

Control Plane Policing (CoPP)

Control Plane Policing (CoPP)

Overview

CoPP provides a way for administrators to protect the management processor on the switch from high
packet loads (generated by malicious or nonmalicious sources) that might interfere with its ability to
keep data plane traffic flowing. For example, a denial of service attack can result in excessive traffic that
would slow down the management processor and negatively affect switch throughput.

A CoPP policy is composed of one or more classes. Each class defines one or more target protocols and
how their traffic is managed. Every policy also has a default class to regulate packets that do not match
any other class. The following actions can be applied for all packets matching a class:

n Drop the packets. (Excluding the default class.)

n Set the processing priority in the range 0 to 6 (0 - highest priority and 6 - lowest priority).

n Set the maximum data rate in packets per second (pps) at which each line module can send packets

to the management processor.

n Set the maximum burst size in packets at which each line module can send packets to the

management processor.

Up to 32 CoPP policies can be defined, but only one can be active on the switch at a time. A CoPP policy
must always be active on the switch. By default, the switch has a CoPP policy named default which is
automatically applied at first boot.

When a line module is hot-swapped or a new line module comes up after boot on a 6400 switch, the
CoPP policy that is actively applied to the switch will be applied.

When the switch reboots, the CoPP policy that was actively applied to the switch before the reboot
occurred s applied if it was saved to the startup configuration with the copy running-config startup-
config command.

For GRE tunneled traffic, CoPP policies match on the payload. CoPP policies do not regulate traffic
received from the Out-of-Band-Management (OOBM) Ethernet port.

Configuring CoPP

Procedure

1. Configure the default CoPP policy, edit an existing policy, or create a policy with the command

copp-policy.

2. Add, edit, or remove classes in the policy with the command class.

3.

If the policy is not the active policy on the switch, apply it with the command apply copp-policy.
(Changes made to an active policy take effect immediately and do not need to be applied.)

4. Review the CoPP policy configuration settings with the command show copp-policy.

Example

This example creates the following configuration:

AOS-CX 10.14.xxxx CoPP Guide | (6200, 6300, 6400 Switches)

9

n DefinesanewpolicynamedMy_CoppPolicy.
n Addstwoclassestothepolicy.
Activatesthepolicy.
n
n Displayspolicyconfigurationsettings.
| switch(config)#      |     |     | copp-policy | My_CoppPolicy |          |        |      |          |     |
| -------------------- | --- | --- | ----------- | ------------- | -------- | ------ | ---- | -------- | --- |
| switch(config-copp)# |     |     | class       | igmp          | priority | 6 rate | 5000 | burst 60 |     |
switch(config-copp)# class lacp priority 2 rate 2000 burst 2050
| switch(config-copp)# |      |             | exit  |               |               |           |      |          |          |
| -------------------- | ---- | ----------- | ----- | ------------- | ------------- | --------- | ---- | -------- | -------- |
| switch(config)#      |      |             | apply | copp-policy   | My_CoppPolicy |           |      |          |          |
| switch(config)#      |      |             | exit  |               |               |           |      |          |          |
| switch#              | show | copp-policy |       | My_CoppPolicy |               |           |      |          |          |
| class                |      |             |       | drop priority | rate          | pps burst | pkts | hardware | rate pps |
--------------------- ---- -------- -------- ---------- -----------------
| igmp    |       |     |          | 6   | 5000 | 60   |     | 5000 |     |
| ------- | ----- | --- | -------- | --- | ---- | ---- | --- | ---- | --- |
| lacp    |       |     |          | 2   | 2000 | 2050 |     | 2000 |     |
| default |       |     |          | 1   | 6000 | 70   |     | 6000 |     |
| Actual  | rates | in  | hardware |     |      |      |     |      |     |
Currently,theactualrateinhardwareisdeterminedbyamappingbasedontheconfiguredrate,shown
bythefollowingtableofthefirstnineactualrates.
| | Configured |     | Rate (pps) | |   | Actual | Rate in Hardware | (pps) |     | |   |     |
| ------------ | --- | ---------- | --- | ------ | ---------------- | ----- | --- | --- | --- |
|-----------------------|-------------------------------|
| | 25-49   |     |     | |   | 25  |     |     |     | |   |     |
| --------- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| | 50-74   |     |     | |   | 50  |     |     |     | |   |     |
| | 75-99   |     |     | |   | 75  |     |     |     | |   |     |
| | 100-124 |     |     | |   | 100 |     |     |     | |   |     |
| | 125-149 |     |     | |   | 125 |     |     |     | |   |     |
| | 150-174 |     |     | |   | 150 |     |     |     | |   |     |
| | 175-199 |     |     | |   | 175 |     |     |     | |   |     |
| | 200-224 |     |     | |   | 200 |     |     |     | |   |     |
| | 225-249 |     |     | |   | 225 |     |     |     | |   |     |
Theprecedingtableshowsthefirstnineactualratesavailableinhardware.Higherratesareavailable.
The'show copp-policy statistics class <CLASS>'commandcanbeusedtoshowtheactualratein
hardwareforaspecificclass.The'show copp-policy <NAME>'commandcanbeusedtoshowtheactual
ratesforallclassesconfiguredinaspecificCoPPpolicy,ifthepolicyisactivelyapplied.
| CoPP    | commands |         |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |
| ------- | -------- | ------- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| Classes | of       | traffic |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |
Thedifferentclassesoftrafficthatcanbeindividuallyconfiguredare:
n acl-logging:AccessControlListloggingpackets.
n arp-broadcast:AddressResolutionProtocolpacketswithabroadcastdestinationMACaddress.
n arp-protect:AddressResolutionProtocolpacketsinterceptedandinspectedforARPprotection.
n arp-unicast:AddressResolutionProtocolpacketswithaswitchsystemdestinationMACaddress.
n bfd-control:BidirectionalForwardingDetection(BFD)controlpacketswithadestinationIPaddress
ownedbytheswitch.
ControlPlanePolicing(CoPP)|10

The bfd-control class is not supported for Aruba 6200 Switch series.

n bgp: Border Gateway Protocol packets with a destination IPv4 or IPv6 address owned by the switch.

The bgp class is not supported for Aruba 6200 Switch series.

n captive-portal: Packets intercepted in support of the Captive Portal feature.

n dhcp: Dynamic Host Configuration Protocol packets. Also includes snooped DHCP packets if DHCP

snooping is enabled.

n erps: Ethernet Ring Protection Switching control packets with the destination MAC address

01:19:a7:00:00:XX, where XX can be any value.

n icmp-broadcast-ipv4: Internet Control Message Protocol packets with a broadcast or multicast

destination IPv4 address.

n icmp-multicast-ipv6: Internet Control Message Protocol packets with a well-known multicast

destination IPv6 address.

n icmp-security-ipv6: IPv6 Internet Control Message Protocol packets intercepted and inspected.

n icmp-unicast-ipv4: Internet Control Message Protocol packets with a destination IPv4 address

owned by the switch

n icmp-unicast-ipv6: Internet Control Message Protocol packets with a destination IPv6 address

owned by the switch.

n ieee-8021x: IEEE 802.1X protocol packets with EtherType 0x0888E.

n igmp: Internet Group Management Protocol packets.

n ip-exceptions: Routable packets that would exceed the MTU for the egress interface, packets that
trigger ICMP redirects, and packets with TTL/hop_limit=1 that are discarded when routing through
the switch.

n ip-lockdown: Packets denied and logged due to violation of allowed "IP address/VLAN/port/MAC

address" association.

n ip-tracker: Track packets received for client IP address tracking.

The ip-tracker class is not supported for Aruba 6300 and 6400 switches.

n ipsec: Internet Protocol Security IPv4 or IPv6, unicast or configured multicast. All IPsec traffic received

by the CPU will be regulated by the ipsec class regardless of the encapsulated protocol.

n ipv4-options: Unicast IPv4 packets including option headers.

n lacp: Link Aggregation Control Protocol packets with the destination MAC address 01:80:c2:00:00:02.

n lldp: Link Layer Discovery Protocol packets with the destination MAC address 01:80:c2:00:00:0e.

n loop-protect: Loop Protection packets with the destination MAC address 09:00:09:09:13:a6.

n mac-lockout: Packets denied and logged due to locked-out MAC address.

n manageability: Unicast IP packets addressed to the switch for specific protocols that do not have a

dedicated CoPP class like HTTP, SSH, Telnet, and RADIUS.

n mirror-to-cpu: Packets from mirroring session configured to deliver to the console.

n mld: Multicast Listener Discovery packets of type V1 or V2 with an IPv6 address of FF00::/8, FF02::16

or FF02::2.

AOS-CX 10.14.xxxx CoPP Guide | (6200, 6300, 6400 Switches)

11

n mvrp: Multiple VLAN Registration Protocol packets with the destination MAC address

01:80:c2:00:00:20 or 01:80:c2:00:00:21

n ntp: Network Time Protocol packets with a destination IP address owned by the switch.

n ospf-multicast: Open Shortest Path First packets with the multicast destination IPv4 address

224.0.0.5 or 224.0.0.6, or IPv6 address FF02::5 or FF02::6.

n ospf-unicast: Open Shortest Path First packets with a local destination IPv4 address or IPv6 address.

n pim: Protocol Independent Multicast packets with the destination IPv4 address 224.0.0.13 or IPv6

address FF02::D, or with a destination IP address owned by the switch.

n secure-learn: Packets intercepted and inspected to see if source MAC address is allowed on the

port.

n sflow: Packet headers sampled by the switch that will be sent to the sFlow collector.

n stp: Spanning Tree Protocol (STP) packets with the destination MAC address 01:80:c2:00:00:00 or Per-

VLAN Spanning Tree (PVST) packets with the destination MAC address 01:00:0c:cc:cc:cd.

n udld: Unidirectional Link Detection packets with the destination MAC address 01:00:0c:cc:cc:cc or

00:e0:52:00:00:00, or Cisco Discovery Protocol packets with the destination MAC address
01:00:0c:cc:cc:cc.

n unknown-multicast: Packets with an unknown multicast destination IP address.

n unresolved-ip-unicast: Packets to be software forwarded by the management processor.

n vrrp: Virtual Router Redundancy Protocol packets with the destination IPv4 address 224.0.0.18 or

IPv6 address FF02::12, or VSX-Keepalive packets.

To regulate any other traffic destined for the CPU, every CoPP policy has a class named default that can
also be configured to regulate other traffic to the CPU or prevent other traffic from being delivered.

All IPsec traffic received by the CPU will be regulated by the ipsec class regardless of the encapsulated protocol.

When ARP protection is enabled on the system, all ARP traffic will be regulated by the arp-protect class,
regardless of the ARP destination and configuration of arp-broadcast or arp-unicast CoPP classes.

Packets for each of the CoPP classes above may have arrived through a tunnel, if tunneling was enabled.

apply copp-policy
apply copp-policy { <NAME> | default }
no apply copp-policy <NAME>

Description

Applies a CoPP policy to the switch, replacing the policy that is in effect. There may be a brief
interruption in traffic flow to the management processor while the switch implements the change.

Enter the no apply copp-policy <NAME> command with the name of a CoPP policy to unapply a CoPP
policy and apply the default CoPP policy. This will only take effect if the specified policy is actively
applied. Since there must always be a CoPP policy applied, this command effectively attempts to replace
the applied CoPP policy with the default CoPP policy. The default CoPP policy cannot be unapplied using
this command.

Parameter

<NAME>

Description

Specifies the name of the policy to apply. Length: 1 to 64

Control Plane Policing (CoPP) | 12

| Parameter |     |     | Description |
| --------- | --- | --- | ----------- |
characters.
| default |     |     | Appliesthedefaultpolicy. |
| ------- | --- | --- | ------------------------ |
Usage
Ifthenewpolicycannotbeapplied(forexample,duetoalackofhardwareresources),theprevious
policyremainsineffect.Usetheshowcopp-policycommandtodeterminewhichpolicyisineffect.
Examples
ApplyingapolicynamedMy_CoppPolicy:
| switch(config)# | apply | copp-policy | My_CoppPolicy |
| --------------- | ----- | ----------- | ------------- |
Applyingthedefaultpolicy:
| switch(config)# | apply | copp-policy | default |
| --------------- | ----- | ----------- | ------- |
UnapplyingapolicynamedMy_CoppPolicy:
| switch(config)#     | no      | apply copp-policy | My_CoppPolicy |
| ------------------- | ------- | ----------------- | ------------- |
| Command History     |         |                   |               |
| Release             |         |                   | Modification  |
| 10.07orearlier      |         |                   | --            |
| Command Information |         |                   |               |
| Platforms           | Command | context           | Authority     |
Allplatforms config Administratorsorlocalusergroupmemberswithexecution
rightsforthiscommand.
class
class <CLASS> {drop | priority <PRIORITY> rate <RATE> [burst <BURST>]}
no class <CLASS> {drop | priority <PRIORITY> rate <RATE> [burst <BURST>]}
Description
AddsaclasstoaCoPPpolicy.Iftheclassexists,theexistingclassismodified.Changesmadetoanactive
(applied)policytakeeffectimmediately.
Whenaddingormodifyingaclassinanactivepolicy,CoPPimmediatelyactivatesthechangeonthe
switch.Incaseswhereinsufficienthardwareresourcesexisttosupportaclassoritsaction,CoPPfailsto
activatethechangedclassontheswitch.Whenthisfailureoccurs,theactiveconfigurationontheswitch
willbeoutofsyncwithitsdefinition.Todiagnoseandremedythissituation:
AOS-CX10.14.xxxxCoPPGuide|(6200,6300,6400Switches) 13

n Usetheshowcopp-policycommandtodeterminewhichclassesareoutofsyncbetweentheactive
policyanditsdefinition.
n Usetheresetcopp-policycommandtosynchronizetheactivepolicywithitsdefinition.This
synchronizationchangestheclassesinthedefinitiontomatchtheclassesintheactivepolicy.
Thenoformofthiscommandremovestheconfigurationfortheclass.Trafficfortheclasswillbe
prioritizedandregulatedusingthefactorydefaultconfigurationfortheclass.Usetheshow copp-
policy factory-defaultcommandtodisplaythefactorydefaultCoPPpolicy.Tostopaclassoftraffic
fromreachingtheprocessor,settheclassactiontodrop.
| Parameter |     |     | Description                          |     |
| --------- | --- | --- | ------------------------------------ | --- |
| <CLASS>   |     |     | Specifiestheclasstoaddoredit.        |     |
| drop      |     |     | Droppacketsmatchingtheselectedclass. |     |
priority <PRIORITY> Specifiesthepriorityforpacketsmatchingtheselectedclass.
Range:0to6.
rate <RATE> Specifiesthemaximumrate,inpacketspersecond(pps),for
packetsmatchingtheselectedclass.Range:25to99999.
burst <BURST>
Specifiesthemaximumburstsize,inpackets,forpackets
matchingtheselectedclass.Range:1to9999.
Examples
AddingaclasstohandleLACPtrafficwithpriorityof2andrateof2000:
switch(config-copp)#
|     |     | class lacp | priority | 2 rate 2000 |
| --- | --- | ---------- | -------- | ----------- |
ModifyingtheclasstodropLLDPpackets:
| switch(config-copp)# |     | class lldp | drop |     |
| -------------------- | --- | ---------- | ---- | --- |
RemovingtheclassthathandlesLLDPpackets.
| switch(config-copp)# |         | no class | lldp         |     |
| -------------------- | ------- | -------- | ------------ | --- |
| Command History      |         |          |              |     |
| Release              |         |          | Modification |     |
| 10.07orearlier       |         |          | --           |     |
| Command Information  |         |          |              |     |
| Platforms            | Command | context  | Authority    |     |
config-copp
Allplatforms Administratorsorlocalusergroupmemberswithexecution
rightsforthiscommand.
ControlPlanePolicing(CoPP)|14

| clear | copp-policy |     | statistics |     |     |     |     |
| ----- | ----------- | --- | ---------- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| clear | copp-policy |     | statistics |     |     |     |     |
Description
ResetsstatisticsforallCoPPclassestozero.
Examples
Displayingandthenresettingstatisticsforallclassesintheactivepolicy:
| switch#    |     | show copp-policy |             | statistics |            |     |     |
| ---------- | --- | ---------------- | ----------- | ---------- | ---------- | --- | --- |
| Statistics |     | for              | CoPP policy |            | 'default': |     |     |
Totals:
|            | packets       | passed            | :           | 1000       |            | packets dropped | : 1500 |
| ---------- | ------------- | ----------------- | ----------- | ---------- | ---------- | --------------- | ------ |
| Class:     | default       |                   |             |            |            |                 |        |
|            | packets       | passed            | :           | 400        |            | packets dropped | : 600  |
| Class:     | acl-logging   |                   |             |            |            |                 |        |
|            | packets       | passed            | :           | 100        |            | packets dropped | : 100  |
| Class:     | arp-broadcast |                   |             |            |            |                 |        |
|            | packets       | passed            | :           | 500        |            | packets dropped | : 800  |
|            |               | <--OUTPUT         | OMITTED     | FOR        | BREVITY--> |                 |        |
| switch#    |               | clear copp-policy |             | statistics |            |                 |        |
| switch#    |               | show copp-policy  |             | statistics |            |                 |        |
| Statistics |               | for               | CoPP policy |            | 'default': |                 |        |
Totals:
|                | packets       | passed      | :   | 0       |              | packets dropped | : 0 |
| -------------- | ------------- | ----------- | --- | ------- | ------------ | --------------- | --- |
| Class:         | default       |             |     |         |              |                 |     |
|                | packets       | passed      | :   | 0       |              | packets dropped | : 0 |
| Class:         | acl-logging   |             |     |         |              |                 |     |
|                | packets       | passed      | :   | 0       |              | packets dropped | : 0 |
| Class:         | arp-broadcast |             |     |         |              |                 |     |
|                | packets       | passed      | :   | 0       |              | packets dropped | : 0 |
| Command        |               | History     |     |         |              |                 |     |
| Release        |               |             |     |         | Modification |                 |     |
| 10.07orearlier |               |             |     |         | --           |                 |     |
| Command        |               | Information |     |         |              |                 |     |
| Platforms      |               | Command     |     | context | Authority    |                 |     |
Allplatforms OperatorsorAdministratorsorlocalusergroupmemberswith
Operator(>)orManager
|     |     | (#) |     |     | executionrightsforthiscommand.Operatorscanexecutethis |     |     |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | ----------------------------------------------------- | --- | --- |
commandfromtheoperatorcontext(>)only.
copp-policy
| copp-policy    |     | {<NAME> | | default |     | [revert]} |     |     |
| -------------- | --- | ------- | --------- | --- | --------- | --- | --- |
| no copp-policy |     | <NAME>  |           |     |           |     |     |
Description
CreatesaCoPPpolicyandswitchestotheconfig-coppcontextforthepolicy.Or,ifthespecifiedpolicy
exists,switchestotheconfig-coppcontextforthepolicy.Apredefinedpolicy,nameddefault,contains
AOS-CX10.14.xxxxCoPPGuide|(6200,6300,6400Switches) 15

factorydefaultclassesandisappliedtotheswitchatfirststartup.Thispolicycannotbedeleted,butits
configurationcanbechanged.
ThenoformofthiscommandremovesaCoPPpolicy.Ifapolicyisactive(applied),itcannotberemoved
.Itmustbereplacedwithanotherpolicybeforeitcanberemoved.
| Parameter |     |     |     | Description |
| --------- | --- | --- | --- | ----------- |
<NAME>
Specifiesthenameofthepolicytoaddoredit.Length:1to64
characters.Thenamemustnotbeasubstringofanyofthe
followingreservedwords:default,factory-default,commands,
configuration,orstatistics.
| default |     |     |     | SpecifiesthedefaultCoPPpolicy.Usethisdefaultpolicyto |
| ------- | --- | --- | --- | ---------------------------------------------------- |
configurethedefaultpolicy.
| revert |     |     |     | SetsthedefaultCoPPpolicytoitsfactorysettings. |
| ------ | --- | --- | --- | --------------------------------------------- |
Examples
CreatingapolicynamedMy_CoppPolicy:
| switch(config)# | copp-policy |     | My_CoppPolicy |     |
| --------------- | ----------- | --- | ------------- | --- |
switch(config-copp)#
RemovingapolicynamedMy_CoppPolicy:
| switch(config)# | no  | copp-policy |     | My_CoppPolicy |
| --------------- | --- | ----------- | --- | ------------- |
Settingthedefaultpolicytoitsfactorysettings:
| switch(config)# | copp-policy |     | default | revert |
| --------------- | ----------- | --- | ------- | ------ |
UnapplyingthepolicynamedMy_CoppPolicy:
| switch(config)#     | no      | apply   | copp-policy | My_CoppPolicy |
| ------------------- | ------- | ------- | ----------- | ------------- |
| Command History     |         |         |             |               |
| Release             |         |         |             | Modification  |
| 10.07orearlier      |         |         |             | --            |
| Command Information |         |         |             |               |
| Platforms           | Command | context |             | Authority     |
config
Allplatforms Administratorsorlocalusergroupmemberswithexecution
rightsforthiscommand.
default-class
ControlPlanePolicing(CoPP)|16

| default-class | priority | <PRIORITY> | rate <RATE> | [burst <BURST>] |
| ------------- | -------- | ---------- | ----------- | --------------- |
Description
ConfiguresthedefaultclassthatisautomaticallydefinedforallCoPPpolicies.Thedefaultclasscannot
beremoved,butitsconfigurationcanbechanged.Thedefaultclassisappliedtotrafficthatdoesnot
matchanyotherclassdefinedforapolicy.
| Parameter |     |     | Description |     |
| --------- | --- | --- | ----------- | --- |
priority <PRIORITY> Specifiesthepriorityforpacketsmatchingtheselectedclass.
Range:0to6.
rate <RATE> Specifiesthemaximumrate,inpacketspersecond(pps),for
packetsmatchingtheselectedclass.Range:25to99999.
burst <BURST> Specifiesthemaximumburstsize,inpackets,forpackets
matchingtheselectedclass.Range:1to9999.
Example
Settingthedefaultclasstoapriorityof2andrateof2000:
| switch(config-copp)# |             | default-class | priority     | 2 rate 2000 |
| -------------------- | ----------- | ------------- | ------------ | ----------- |
| Command              | History     |               |              |             |
| Release              |             |               | Modification |             |
| 10.07orearlier       |             |               | --           |             |
| Command              | Information |               |              |             |
| Platforms            | Command     | context       | Authority    |             |
Allplatforms config-copp Administratorsorlocalusergroupmemberswithexecution
rightsforthiscommand.
| reset copp-policy |          |           |     |     |
| ----------------- | -------- | --------- | --- | --- |
| reset copp-policy | { <NAME> | | default | }   |     |
Description
ResetsanactiveCoPPpolicytomatchthesettingsthatarecurrentlyineffectfortheactivepolicyonthe
switch.Changesmadetotheactivepolicythatcouldnotbeactivatedareremovedfromtheactive
policy.WhentheswitchfailstoaddormodifyaclassinanactiveCoPPpolicy,itispossibletheactive
policysettingsontheswitchmaybeoutofsyncwiththosedefinedinthepolicy.
| Parameter |     |     | Description                                     |     |
| --------- | --- | --- | ----------------------------------------------- | --- |
| <NAME>    |     |     | Specifiesthenameofthepolicytoreset.Length:1to64 |     |
characters.
| default |     |     | Resetsthedefaultpolicytomatchitsactivesettings. |     |
| ------- | --- | --- | ----------------------------------------------- | --- |
AOS-CX10.14.xxxxCoPPGuide|(6200,6300,6400Switches) 17

Examples
ResettingapolicynamedMy_CoppPolicy:
switch#
| show  | copp-policy |      | My_CoppPolicy |      |           |      |          |          |
| ----- | ----------- | ---- | ------------- | ---- | --------- | ---- | -------- | -------- |
| class |             | drop | priority      | rate | pps burst | pkts | hardware | rate pps |
--------------------- ---- -------- -------- ---------- -----------------
| igmp                 |             |       | 6                | 5000     | 60            |       | 5000     |          |
| -------------------- | ----------- | ----- | ---------------- | -------- | ------------- | ----- | -------- | -------- |
| lacp                 |             |       | 2                | 2000     | 2050          |       | 2000     |          |
| default              |             |       | 1                | 6000     | 70            |       | 6000     |          |
| switch# config       | terminal    |       |                  |          |               |       |          |          |
| switch(config)#      | copp-policy |       | My_CoppPolicy    |          |               |       |          |          |
| switch(config-copp)# |             | class | stp              | priority | 4 rate 4000   | burst | 60       |          |
| switch(config-copp)# |             | do    | show copp-policy |          | My_CoppPolicy |       |          |          |
| class                |             | drop  | priority         | rate     | pps burst     | pkts  | hardware | rate pps |
--------------------- ---- -------- -------- ---------- -----------------
| igmp    |     |     | 6   | 5000 | 60   |     | 5000 |     |
| ------- | --- | --- | --- | ---- | ---- | --- | ---- | --- |
| lacp    |     |     | 2   | 2000 | 2050 |     | 2000 |     |
| default |     |     | 1   | 6000 | 70   |     | 6000 |     |
% Warning: user-specified classes in CoPP policy My_CoppPolicy do not match
| active configuration. |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |
| --------------------- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
switch(config-copp)# do show copp-policy My_CoppPolicy configuration
| class |     | drop | priority | rate | pps burst | pkts | applied |     |
| ----- | --- | ---- | -------- | ---- | --------- | ---- | ------- | --- |
--------------------- ---- -------- -------- ---------- -------
| igmp    |     |     | 6   | 5000 | 60   |     | yes |     |
| ------- | --- | --- | --- | ---- | ---- | --- | --- | --- |
| lacp    |     |     | 2   | 2000 | 2050 |     | yes |     |
| stp     |     |     | 4   | 4000 | 60   |     | no  |     |
| default |     |     | 1   | 6000 | 70   |     | yes |     |
% Warning: user-specified classes in CoPP policy My_CoppPolicy do not match
| active configuration. |       |             |             |               |           |      |          |          |
| --------------------- | ----- | ----------- | ----------- | ------------- | --------- | ---- | -------- | -------- |
| switch(config-copp)#  |       | exit        |             |               |           |      |          |          |
| switch(config)#       | reset | copp-policy |             | My_CoppPolicy |           |      |          |          |
| switch(config)#       | do    | show        | copp-policy | My_CoppPolicy |           |      |          |          |
| class                 |       | drop        | priority    | rate          | pps burst | pkts | hardware | rate pps |
--------------------- ---- -------- -------- ---------- -----------------
| igmp    |     |     | 6   | 5000 | 60   |     | 5000 |     |
| ------- | --- | --- | --- | ---- | ---- | --- | ---- | --- |
| lacp    |     |     | 2   | 2000 | 2050 |     | 2000 |     |
| default |     |     | 1   | 6000 | 70   |     | 6000 |     |
Resettingthedefaultpolicy:
| switch(config)#     | reset   | copp-policy |     | default      |     |     |     |     |
| ------------------- | ------- | ----------- | --- | ------------ | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| Command History     |         |             |     |              |     |     |     |     |
| Release             |         |             |     | Modification |     |     |     |     |
| 10.07orearlier      |         |             |     | --           |     |     |     |     |
| Command Information |         |             |     |              |     |     |     |     |
| Platforms           | Command | context     |     | Authority    |     |     |     |     |
config
Allplatforms Administratorsorlocalusergroupmemberswithexecution
rightsforthiscommand.
show copp-policy
show copp-policy [<NAME> | default] [commands] [configuration] [vsx-peer]
ControlPlanePolicing(CoPP)|18

Description

Shows CoPP policy settings for a specific CoPP policy. When entered without specifying either a name or
the default parameter, shows all the CoPP policy settings that are active on the switch and have
successfully been programmed into the hardware.

A warning is displayed if:

n The active and user-specified applications of a policy do not match.

n The active and user-specified configurations of a policy do not match.

Parameter

<NAME>

default

commands

configuration

vsx-peer

Example

Description

Specifies the name of the policy for which to display settings.
Length: 1 to 64 characters.

Displays CoPP settings for the default policy.

Displays output as CLI commands.

Displays user-specified CoPP settings and not the active settings.

Shows the output from the VSX peer switch. If the switches do not
have the VSX configuration or the ISL is down, the output from the
VSX peer switch is not displayed. This parameter is available on
switches that support VSX.

Displaying the CoPP policies defined in the configuration and the active application:

switch#
show copp-policy
applied copp_policy_name
------- ----------------

My_CoppPolicy

applied default
switch#

Displaying the active configuration of all CoPP policies as CLI commands:

switch# show copp-policy commands
copp-policy My_CoppPolicy

class igmp priority 6 rate 5000 burst 60
class lacp priority 2 rate 2000 burst 2050
default-class priority 1 rate 6000 burst 70

copp-policy default

class acl-logging priority 0 rate 25 burst 3
class arp-broadcast priority 2 rate 1250 burst 1250
class arp-protect priority 2 rate 2075 burst 2075
class arp-unicast priority 3 rate 825 burst 825
class bfd-control priority 5 rate 850 burst 850

<--OUTPUT OMITTED FOR BREVITY-->

default-class priority 2 rate 4225 burst 528

apply copp-policy default
switch#

Displaying the default policy:

AOS-CX 10.14.xxxx CoPP Guide | (6200, 6300, 6400 Switches)

19

| switch# | show | copp-policy |      | default  |      |           |      |          |          |
| ------- | ---- | ----------- | ---- | -------- | ---- | --------- | ---- | -------- | -------- |
| class   |      |             | drop | priority | rate | pps burst | pkts | hardware | rate pps |
--------------------- ---- -------- -------- ---------- -----------------
| acl-logging    |             |         |         | 0          | 25           | 3    |     | 25   |     |
| -------------- | ----------- | ------- | ------- | ---------- | ------------ | ---- | --- | ---- | --- |
| arp-broadcast  |             |         |         | 2          | 1250         | 1250 |     | 1250 |     |
| arp-protect    |             |         |         | 2          | 2075         | 2075 |     | 2075 |     |
| arp-unicast    |             |         |         | 3          | 825          | 825  |     | 825  |     |
| bfd-control    |             |         |         | 5          | 850          | 850  |     | 850  |     |
|                | <--OUTPUT   | OMITTED | FOR     | BREVITY--> |              |      |     |      |     |
| default        |             |         |         | 2          | 4225         | 528  |     | 4225 |     |
| Command        | History     |         |         |            |              |      |     |      |     |
| Release        |             |         |         |            | Modification |      |     |      |     |
| 10.07orearlier |             |         |         |            | --           |      |     |      |     |
| Command        | Information |         |         |            |              |      |     |      |     |
| Platforms      |             | Command | context |            | Authority    |      |     |      |     |
Allplatforms Operator(>)orManager OperatorsorAdministratorsorlocalusergroupmemberswith
|     |     | (#) |     |     | executionrightsforthiscommand.Operatorscanexecutethis |     |     |     |     |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | ----------------------------------------------------- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
commandfromtheoperatorcontext(>)only.
| show | copp-policy |                 | factory-default |            |     |            |     |     |     |
| ---- | ----------- | --------------- | --------------- | ---------- | --- | ---------- | --- | --- | --- |
| show | copp-policy | factory-default |                 | [commands] |     | [vsx-peer] |     |     |     |
Description
Displaytheconfigurationforthefactory-defaultCoPPpolicy.
| Parameter |     |     |     |     | Description                  |     |     |     |     |
| --------- | --- | --- | --- | --- | ---------------------------- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| commands  |     |     |     |     | DisplaysoutputasCLIcommands. |     |     |     |     |
vsx-peer ShowstheoutputfromtheVSXpeerswitch.Iftheswitchesdonot
havetheVSXconfigurationortheISLisdown,theoutputfromthe
VSXpeerswitchisnotdisplayed.Thisparameterisavailableon
switchesthatsupportVSX.
Example
Displayingthefactory-defaultpolicy:
| switch#               | show      | copp-policy |      | factory-default |          |            |      |     |     |
| --------------------- | --------- | ----------- | ---- | --------------- | -------- | ---------- | ---- | --- | --- |
| class                 |           |             | drop | priority        | rate     | pps burst  | pkts |     |     |
| --------------------- |           |             | ---- | --------        | -------- | ---------- |      |     |     |
| acl-logging           |           |             |      | 0               | 25       | 3          |      |     |     |
| arp-broadcast         |           |             |      | 2               | 1250     | 1250       |      |     |     |
| arp-protect           |           |             |      | 2               | 2075     | 2075       |      |     |     |
| arp-unicast           |           |             |      | 3               | 825      | 825        |      |     |     |
| bfd-control           |           |             |      | 5               | 850      | 850        |      |     |     |
|                       | <--OUTPUT | OMITTED     | FOR  | BREVITY-->      |          |            |      |     |     |
ControlPlanePolicing(CoPP)|20

| default |     |     |     | 2   |     | 4225 | 528 |     |     |     |
| ------- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | ---- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
DisplayingtheactiveconfigurationofMy_CoppPolicy(My_CoppPolicyisapplied):
| switch#         | config |     | terminal |               |               |               |       |      |          |          |
| --------------- | ------ | --- | -------- | ------------- | ------------- | ------------- | ----- | ---- | -------- | -------- |
| switch(config)# |        |     | apply    | copp-policy   | My_CoppPolicy |               |       |      |          |          |
| switch(config)# |        |     | do show  | copp-policy   |               | My_CoppPolicy |       |      |          |          |
| class           |        |     |          | drop priority |               | rate pps      | burst | pkts | hardware | rate pps |
--------------------- ---- -------- -------- ---------- -----------------
| igmp    |     |     |     | 6   |     | 5000 | 60   |     | 5000 |     |
| ------- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | ---- | ---- | --- | ---- | --- |
| lacp    |     |     |     | 2   |     | 2000 | 2050 |     | 2000 |     |
| default |     |     |     | 1   |     | 6000 | 70   |     | 6000 |     |
DisplayingtheactiveconfigurationofMy_CoppPolicyasCLIcommands:
| switch#     | show          | copp-policy   |               | My_CoppPolicy |      | commands |      |     |     |     |
| ----------- | ------------- | ------------- | ------------- | ------------- | ---- | -------- | ---- | --- | --- | --- |
| copp-policy |               | My_CoppPolicy |               |               |      |          |      |     |     |     |
|             | class         | igmp          | priority      | 6 rate        | 5000 | burst    | 60   |     |     |     |
|             | class         | lacp          | priority      | 2 rate        | 2000 | burst    | 2050 |     |     |     |
|             | default-class |               | priority      | 1 rate        | 6000 | burst    | 70   |     |     |     |
| apply       | copp-policy   |               | My_CoppPolicy |               |      |          |      |     |     |     |
Displayingtheuser-specifiedconfigurationofMy_CoppPolicy:
| switch# | show | copp-policy |     | My_CoppPolicy |     | configuration |       |      |         |     |
| ------- | ---- | ----------- | --- | ------------- | --- | ------------- | ----- | ---- | ------- | --- |
| class   |      |             |     | drop priority |     | rate pps      | burst | pkts | applied |     |
--------------------- ---- -------- -------- ---------- -------
| igmp    |     |     |     | 6   |     | 5000 | 60   |     | yes |     |
| ------- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | ---- | ---- | --- | --- | --- |
| lacp    |     |     |     | 2   |     | 2000 | 2050 |     | yes |     |
| default |     |     |     | 1   |     | 6000 | 70   |     | yes |     |
Displayingtheuser-specifiedconfigurationofMy_CoppPolicyasCLIcommands:
| switch#        | show          | copp-policy   |               | My_CoppPolicy |              | commands |      | configuration |     |     |
| -------------- | ------------- | ------------- | ------------- | ------------- | ------------ | -------- | ---- | ------------- | --- | --- |
| copp-policy    |               | My_CoppPolicy |               |               |              |          |      |               |     |     |
|                | class         | igmp          | priority      | 6 rate        | 5000         | burst    | 60   |               |     |     |
|                | class         | lacp          | priority      | 2 rate        | 2000         | burst    | 2050 |               |     |     |
|                | default-class |               | priority      | 1 rate        | 6000         | burst    | 70   |               |     |     |
| apply          | copp-policy   |               | My_CoppPolicy |               |              |          |      |               |     |     |
| Command        | History       |               |               |               |              |          |      |               |     |     |
| Release        |               |               |               |               | Modification |          |      |               |     |     |
| 10.07orearlier |               |               |               |               | --           |          |      |               |     |     |
| Command        | Information   |               |               |               |              |          |      |               |     |     |
| Platforms      |               | Command       |               | context       | Authority    |          |      |               |     |     |
Allplatforms Operator(>)orManager OperatorsorAdministratorsorlocalusergroupmemberswith
|     |     | (#) |     |     | executionrightsforthiscommand.Operatorscanexecutethis |     |     |     |     |     |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | ----------------------------------------------------- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
commandfromtheoperatorcontext(>)only.
AOS-CX10.14.xxxxCoPPGuide|(6200,6300,6400Switches) 21

| show copp-policy |     |     | statistics |     |     |     |     |
| ---------------- | --- | --- | ---------- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
show copp-policy statistics [class <CLASS> | default-class | non-zero] [vsx-peer]
Description
Displaysstatisticsforallclasses,asingleclass,orallclasseswithnon-zerostatisticsintheactiveCoPP
policy.
| Parameter     |     |     |     |     | Description                                   |     |     |
| ------------- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --------------------------------------------- | --- | --- |
| <CLASS>       |     |     |     |     | Specifiestheclassforwhichtodisplaystatistics. |     |     |
| default-class |     |     |     |     | Displaysstatisticsforthedefaultclass.         |     |     |
non-zero Displaysstatisticsforallclasseswithnon-zerostatistics.
vsx-peer ShowstheoutputfromtheVSXpeerswitch.Iftheswitchesdonot
havetheVSXconfigurationortheISLisdown,theoutputfromthe
VSXpeerswitchisnotdisplayed.Thisparameterisavailableon
switchesthatsupportVSX.
Usage
Ifasingleclassisspecified,thepriority,rate,andburstsizethathasbeenprogrammedinhardwarefor
thatclasswillbeshown.
Examples
ApplyingthedefaultCoPPpolicyanddisplayingstatisticsforallclassesintheactivelyappliedpolicy:
Theratedisplayedistheactualrateinhardware.
| switch# | config |     | terminal |     |     |     |     |
| ------- | ------ | --- | -------- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
switch(config)#
|                 |      |             | apply       | copp-policy | default    |     |     |
| --------------- | ---- | ----------- | ----------- | ----------- | ---------- | --- | --- |
| switch(config)# |      |             | exit        |             |            |     |     |
| switch#         | show | copp-policy |             | statistics  |            |     |     |
| Statistics      |      | for         | CoPP policy |             | 'default': |     |     |
Totals:
| packets |     | passed | :   | 1000 |     | packets dropped | : 1500 |
| ------- | --- | ------ | --- | ---- | --- | --------------- | ------ |
Class: default
| packets |     | passed | :   | 400 |     | packets dropped | : 600 |
| ------- | --- | ------ | --- | --- | --- | --------------- | ----- |
Class: acl-logging
| packets |     | passed | :   | 100 |     | packets dropped | : 100 |
| ------- | --- | ------ | --- | --- | --- | --------------- | ----- |
Class: arp-broadcast
| packets |           | passed | :       | 500 |            | packets dropped | : 800 |
| ------- | --------- | ------ | ------- | --- | ---------- | --------------- | ----- |
|         | <--OUTPUT |        | OMITTED | FOR | BREVITY--> |                 |       |
Displayingstatisticsforthedefaultclassintheactivepolicy:
| switch(config)# |     |     | show copp-policy |     | statistics | default-class |     |
| --------------- | --- | --- | ---------------- | --- | ---------- | ------------- | --- |
| Statistics      |     | for | CoPP policy      |     | 'default': |               |     |
Class: default
| Description: |       | Default |     |     |      |     |     |
| ------------ | ----- | ------- | --- | --- | ---- | --- | --- |
| priority     |       |         |     | :   | 2    |     |     |
| rate         | (pps) |         |     | :   | 4225 |     |     |
ControlPlanePolicing(CoPP)|22

|     | burst   | size (pkts) |       | : 528 |     |                 |       |
| --- | ------- | ----------- | ----- | ----- | --- | --------------- | ----- |
|     | packets | passed      | : 400 |       |     | packets dropped | : 600 |
Displayingstatisticsfortheclassarp-broadcastintheactivelyappliedpolicy:
| switch#        |               | show copp-policy |            | statistics | class        | arp-broadcast   |       |
| -------------- | ------------- | ---------------- | ---------- | ---------- | ------------ | --------------- | ----- |
| Statistics     |               | for CoPP         | policy     | 'default': |              |                 |       |
| Class:         | arp-broadcast |                  |            |            |              |                 |       |
| Description:   |               | Address          | Resolution |            | Protocol     | broadcast       |       |
|                | priority      |                  |            | : 2        |              |                 |       |
|                | rate          | (pps)            |            | : 1250     |              |                 |       |
|                | burst         | size (pkts)      |            | : 1250     |              |                 |       |
|                | packets       | passed           | : 500      |            |              | packets dropped | : 800 |
| Command        |               | History          |            |            |              |                 |       |
| Release        |               |                  |            |            | Modification |                 |       |
| 10.07orearlier |               |                  |            |            | --           |                 |       |
| Command        |               | Information      |            |            |              |                 |       |
| Platforms      |               | Command          | context    |            | Authority    |                 |       |
Allplatforms Operator(>)orManager OperatorsorAdministratorsorlocalusergroupmemberswith
executionrightsforthiscommand.Operatorscanexecutethis
(#)
commandfromtheoperatorcontext(>)only.
| show | tech      | copp |     |     |     |     |     |
| ---- | --------- | ---- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| show | tech copp |      |     |     |     |     |     |
Description
DisplaystheoutputofallshowcommandssupportedbyCoPP.
Examples
Capturingthecommandoutputintoalocalfile:
| switch# |     | show tech | copp local-file |     |     |     |     |
| ------- | --- | --------- | --------------- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
Show Tech output stored in local-file. Please use 'copy show-tech local-file' to
| copy-out |            | this file.     |            |     |     |     |     |
| -------- | ---------- | -------------- | ---------- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| switch#  |            | copy show-tech | local-file |     | ?   |     |     |
|          | REMOTE_URL | URL            | of syntax  |     |     |     |     |
{tftp://|sftp://USER@}{IP|HOST}[:PORT][;blocksize=VAL]/FILE
|         | STORAGE_URL | URL            | of syntax  |     | usb:/file |     |     |
| ------- | ----------- | -------------- | ---------- | --- | --------- | --- | --- |
| switch# |             | copy show-tech | local-file |     |           |     |     |
| Command |             | History        |            |     |           |     |     |
AOS-CX10.14.xxxxCoPPGuide|(6200,6300,6400Switches) 23

| Release             |         |         | Modification |
| ------------------- | ------- | ------- | ------------ |
| 10.07orearlier      |         |         | --           |
| Command Information |         |         |              |
| Platforms           | Command | context | Authority    |
Allplatforms Manager(#) Administratorsorlocalusergroupmemberswithexecution
rightsforthiscommand.
ControlPlanePolicing(CoPP)|24

Chapter 3

Support and Other Resources

Support and Other Resources

Accessing HPE Aruba Networking Support

HPE Aruba Networking Support Services

https://www.arubanetworks.com/support-services/

AOS-CX Switch Software Documentation
Portal

https://www.arubanetworks.com/techdocs/AOS-CX/help_
portal/Content/home.htm

HPE Aruba Networking Support Portal

https://networkingsupport.hpe.com/home

North America telephone

1-800-943-4526 (US & Canada Toll-Free Number)

+1-408-754-1200 (Primary - Toll Number)

+1-650-385-6582 (Backup - Toll Number - Use only when all other

numbers are not working)

International telephone

https://www.arubanetworks.com/support-services/contact-
support/

Be sure to collect the following information before contacting Support:

n Technical support registration number (if applicable)

n Product name, model or version, and serial number

n Operating system name and version

n Firmware version

n Error messages

n Product-specific reports and logs

n Add-on products or components

n Third-party products or components

Other useful sites

Other websites that can be used to find information:

https://community.arubanetworks.com/

https://www.arubanetworks.com/techdocs/hardware/DocumentationPortal/Content/home.
htm

Airheads social
forums and
Knowledge Base

HPE Aruba
Networking
Hardware
Documentation
and Translations
Portal

AOS-CX 10.14.xxxx CoPP Guide | (6200, 6300, 6400 Switches)

25

| HPEAruba | https://networkingsupport.hpe.com/downloads |     |
| -------- | ------------------------------------------- | --- |
Networking
software
| Software | https://lms.arubanetworks.com/ |     |
| -------- | ------------------------------ | --- |
licensingand
FeaturePacks
End-of-Life https://www.arubanetworks.com/support-services/end-of-life/
information
| HPEAruba | https://developer.arubanetworks.com/ |     |
| -------- | ------------------------------------ | --- |
Networking
DeveloperHub
| Accessing | Updates |     |
| --------- | ------- | --- |
YoucanaccessupdatesfromtheHPEArubaNetworkingSupportPortalat
https://networkingsupport.hpe.com.
Somesoftwareproductsprovideamechanismforaccessingsoftwareupdatesthroughtheproduct
interface.Reviewyourproductdocumentationtoidentifytherecommendedsoftwareupdatemethod.
TosubscribetoeNewslettersandalerts:
https://networkingsupport.hpe./notifications/subscriptions(requiresanactiveHPEArubaNetworking
SupportPortalaccounttomanagesubscriptions).SecuritynoticesareviewablewithoutanHPEAruba
NetworkingSupportPortalaccount.
| Warranty | Information |     |
| -------- | ----------- | --- |
Toviewwarrantyinformationforyourproduct,gotohttps://www.arubanetworks.com/support-
services/product-warranties/.
| Regulatory | Information |     |
| ---------- | ----------- | --- |
Toviewtheregulatoryinformationforyourproduct,viewtheSafetyandComplianceInformationfor
Server,Storage,Power,Networking,andRackProducts,availableathttps://www.hpe.com/support/Safety-
Compliance-EnterpriseProducts
| Additional | regulatory | information |
| ---------- | ---------- | ----------- |
HPEArubaNetworkingiscommittedtoprovidingourcustomerswithinformationaboutthechemical
substancesinourproductsasneededtocomplywithlegalrequirements,environmentaldata(company
programs,productrecycling,energyefficiency),andsafetyinformationandcompliancedata,(RoHSand
WEEE).Formoreinformation,seehttps://www.arubanetworks.com/company/about-us/environmental-
citizenship/.
| Documentation |     | Feedback |
| ------------- | --- | -------- |
HPEArubaNetworkingiscommittedtoprovidingdocumentationthatmeetsyourneeds.Tohelpus
improvethedocumentation,sendanyerrors,suggestions,orcommentstoDocumentationFeedback
(docsfeedback-switching@hpe.com).Whensubmittingyourfeedback,includethedocumenttitle,part
number,edition,andpublicationdatelocatedonthefrontcoverofthedocument.Foronlinehelp
SupportandOtherResources|26

content, include the product name, product version, help edition, and publication date located on the
legal notices page.

AOS-CX 10.14.xxxx CoPP Guide | (6200, 6300, 6400 Switches)

27