AOS-CX 10.11 CoPP Guide

8400 Switch Series

Published: February 2023
Edition: 2

Copyright Information

© Copyright 2023 Hewlett Packard Enterprise Development LP.

Open Source Code

This product includes code licensed under the GNU General Public License, the GNU Lesser General
Public License, and/or certain other open source licenses. A complete machine-readable copy of the
source code corresponding to such code is available upon request. This offer is valid to anyone in
receipt of this information and shall expire three years following the date of the final distribution of this
product version by Hewlett Packard Enterprise Company. To obtain such source code, send a check or
money order in the amount of US $10.00 to:

Hewlett Packard Enterprise Company
6280 America Center Drive
San Jose, CA 95002
USA

Notices

The information contained herein is subject to change without notice. The only warranties for Hewlett
Packard Enterprise products and services are set forth in the express warranty statements
accompanying such products and services. Nothing herein should be construed as constituting an
additional warranty. Hewlett Packard Enterprise shall not be liable for technical or editorial errors or
omissions contained herein.

Confidential computer software. Valid license from Hewlett Packard Enterprise required for possession,
use, or copying. Consistent with FAR 12.211 and 12.212, Commercial Computer Software, Computer
Software Documentation, and Technical Data for Commercial Items are licensed to the U.S. Government
under vendor's standard commercial license.

Links to third-party websites take you outside the Hewlett Packard Enterprise website. Hewlett Packard
Enterprise has no control over and is not responsible for information outside the Hewlett Packard
Enterprise website.

| 2

Contents
Contents
| Contents                            |                                |          |           | 3   |
| ----------------------------------- | ------------------------------ | -------- | --------- | --- |
| About                               | this                           | document |           | 4   |
| Applicableproducts                  |                                |          |           | 4   |
| Latestversionavailableonline        |                                |          |           | 4   |
| Commandsyntaxnotationconventions    |                                |          |           | 4   |
| Abouttheexamples                    |                                |          |           | 5   |
| Identifyingswitchportsandinterfaces |                                |          |           | 5   |
| Identifyingmodularswitchcomponents  |                                |          |           | 6   |
| Control                             | Plane                          | Policing | (CoPP)    | 7   |
| Overview                            |                                |          |           | 7   |
| ConfiguringCoPP                     |                                |          |           | 7   |
| Actualratesinhardware               |                                |          |           | 8   |
| CoPPcommands                        |                                |          |           | 8   |
|                                     | Classesoftraffic               |          |           | 8   |
|                                     | applycopp-policy               |          |           | 10  |
|                                     | class                          |          |           | 11  |
|                                     | clearcopp-policystatistics     |          |           | 12  |
|                                     | copp-policy                    |          |           | 13  |
|                                     | default-class                  |          |           | 15  |
|                                     | resetcopp-policy               |          |           | 15  |
|                                     | showcopp-policy                |          |           | 17  |
|                                     | showcopp-policyfactory-default |          |           | 18  |
|                                     | showcopp-policystatistics      |          |           | 20  |
|                                     | showtechcopp                   |          |           | 22  |
| Support                             | and                            | Other    | Resources | 23  |
| AccessingArubaSupport               |                                |          |           | 23  |
| AccessingUpdates                    |                                |          |           | 24  |
|                                     | ArubaSupportPortal             |          |           | 24  |
|                                     | MyNetworking                   |          |           | 24  |
| WarrantyInformation                 |                                |          |           | 24  |
| RegulatoryInformation               |                                |          |           | 24  |
| DocumentationFeedback               |                                |          |           | 25  |
3
AOS-CX10.11CoPPGuide| (8400Switches)

Chapter 1
About this document
| About | this document |     |     |
| ----- | ------------- | --- | --- |
ThisdocumentdescribesfeaturesoftheAOS-CXnetworkoperatingsystem.Itisintendedfor
administratorsresponsibleforinstalling,configuring,andmanagingArubaswitchesonanetwork.
| Applicable | products |     |     |
| ---------- | -------- | --- | --- |
Thisdocumentappliestothefollowingproducts:
n Aruba8400SwitchSeries(JL366A,JL363A,JL687A)
| Latest | version | available | online |
| ------ | ------- | --------- | ------ |
Updatestothisdocumentcanoccurafterinitialpublication.Forthelatestversionsofproduct
documentation,seethelinksprovidedinSupportandOtherResources.
| Command    | syntax | notation | conventions |
| ---------- | ------ | -------- | ----------- |
| Convention |        | Usage    |             |
example-text Identifiescommandsandtheiroptionsandoperands,codeexamples,
filenames,pathnames,andoutputdisplayedinacommandwindow.Items
thatappearliketheexampletextinthepreviouscolumnaretobeentered
exactlyasshownandarerequiredunlessenclosedinbrackets([ ]).
example-text Incodeandscreenexamples,indicatestextenteredbyauser.
Anyofthefollowing: Identifiesaplaceholder—suchasaparameteroravariable—thatyoumust
n <example-text> substitutewithanactualvalueinacommandorincode:
<example-text>
n
|     |     | n Foroutputformatswhereitalictextcannotbedisplayed,variables |     |
| --- | --- | ------------------------------------------------------------ | --- |
n example-text
areenclosedinanglebrackets(< >).Substitutethetext—including
n example-text
theenclosinganglebrackets—withanactualvalue.
|     |     | n Foroutputformatswhereitalictextcanbedisplayed,variables |     |
| --- | --- | --------------------------------------------------------- | --- |
mightormightnotbeenclosedinanglebrackets.Substitutethe
textincludingtheenclosinganglebrackets,ifany,withanactual
value.
|
Verticalbar.AlogicalORthatseparatesmultipleitemsfromwhichyoucan
chooseonlyone.
Anyspacesthatareoneithersideoftheverticalbarareincludedfor
readabilityandarenotarequiredpartofthecommandsyntax.
{ } Braces.Indicatesthatatleastoneoftheencloseditemsisrequired.
| [ ] |     | Brackets.Indicatesthattheencloseditemoritemsareoptional. |     |
| --- | --- | -------------------------------------------------------- | --- |
4
| AOS-CX10.11CoPPGuide| | (8400Switches) |     |     |
| --------------------- | -------------- | --- | --- |

Convention

… or

...

Usage

Ellipsis:

n In code and screen examples, a vertical or horizontal ellipsis indicates an

omission of information.

n In syntax using brackets and braces, an ellipsis indicates items that can be

repeated. When an item followed by ellipses is enclosed in brackets, zero

or more items can be specified.

About the examples
Examples in this document are representative and might not match your particular switch or
environment.

The slot and port numbers in this document are for illustration only and might be unavailable on your
switch.

Understanding the CLI prompts

When illustrating the prompts in the command line interface (CLI), this document uses the generic term
switch, instead of the host name of the switch. For example:
switch>

The CLI prompt indicates the current command context. For example:
switch>

Indicates the operator command context.

switch#

Indicates the manager command context.

switch(CONTEXT-NAME)#

Indicates the configuration context for a feature. For example:

switch(config-if)#

Identifies the interface context.

Variable information in CLI prompts

In certain configuration contexts, the prompt may include variable information. For example, when in
the VLAN configuration context, a VLAN number appears in the prompt:
switch(config-vlan-100)#

When referring to this context, this document uses the syntax:
switch(config-vlan-<VLAN-ID>)#

Where <VLAN-ID> is a variable representing the VLAN number.

Identifying switch ports and interfaces
Physical ports on the switch and their corresponding logical software interfaces are identified using the
format:
member/slot/port

On the 8400 Switch Series

About this document | 5

n member: Always 1. VSF is not supported on this switch.

n slot: Specifies physical location of a module in the switch chassis.

o Management modules are on the front of the switch in slots 1/5 and 1/6.

o Line modules are on the front of the switch in slots 1/1 through 1/4, and 1/7 through 1/10.

n port: Physical number of a port on a line module

For example, the logical interface 1/1/4 in software is associated with physical port 4 in slot 1 on
member 1.

Identifying modular switch components

n Power supplies are on the front of the switch behind the bezel above the management modules.

Power supplies are labeled in software in the format: member/power supply:

o member: 1.

o power supply: 1 to 4.

n Fans are on the rear of the switch and are labeled in software as: member/tray/fan:

o member: 1.

o tray: 1 to 4.

o fan: 1 to 4.

n Fabric modules are not labeled on the switch but are labeled in software in the format:

member/module:

o member: 1.

o member: 1 or 2.

n The display module on the rear of the switch is not labeled with a member or slot number.

AOS-CX 10.11 CoPP Guide | (8400 Switches)

6

Control Plane Policing (CoPP)

Chapter 2

Control Plane Policing (CoPP)

Overview
CoPP provides a way for administrators to protect the management processor on the switch from high
packet loads (generated by malicious or nonmalicious sources) that might interfere with its ability to
keep data plane traffic flowing. For example, a denial of service attack can result in excessive traffic that
would slow down the management processor and negatively affect switch throughput.

A CoPP policy is composed of one or more classes. Each class defines one or more target protocols and
how their traffic is managed. Every policy also has a default class to regulate packets that do not match
any other class. The following actions can be applied for all packets matching a class:

n Drop the packets. (Excluding the default class.)

n Set the processing priority in the range 0 to 10 (0 - highest priority and 10 - lowest priority).

n Set the maximum data rate in kilobits per second (Kb/s) at which each line module can send packets

to the management processor.

n Set the maximum burst size in kilobytes at which each line module can send packets to the

management processor.

Up to 32 CoPP policies can be defined, but only one can be active on the switch at a time. A CoPP policy
must always be active on the switch. By default, the switch has a CoPP policy named default which is
automatically applied at first boot.

When a line module is hot-swapped or a new line module comes up after boot, the CoPP policy that is
actively applied to the switch will be applied.

When the switch reboots, the CoPP policy that was actively applied to the switch before the reboot
occurred s applied if it was saved to the startup configuration with the copy running-config startup-
config command.

For GRE tunneled traffic, CoPP policies match on the payload. CoPP policies do not regulate traffic
received from the Out-of-Band-Management (OOBM) Ethernet port.

Configuring CoPP

Procedure

1. Configure the default CoPP policy, edit an existing policy, or create a policy with the command

copp-policy.

2. Add, edit, or remove classes in the policy with the command class.

3.

If the policy is not the active policy on the switch, apply it with the command apply copp-policy.
(Changes made to an active policy take effect immediately and do not need to be applied.)

4. Review the CoPP policy configuration settings with the command show copp-policy.

Example

This example creates the following configuration:

AOS-CX 10.11 CoPP Guide | (8400 Switches)

7

n DefinesanewpolicynamedMy_CoppPolicy.
n Addstwoclassestothepolicy.
Activatesthepolicy.
n
n Displayspolicyconfigurationsettings.
| switch(config)#      |      |             | copp-policy | My_CoppPolicy |               |             |            |     |          |
| -------------------- | ---- | ----------- | ----------- | ------------- | ------------- | ----------- | ---------- | --- | -------- |
| switch(config-copp)# |      |             | class       | igmp          | priority      | 6 rate 5000 | burst 60   |     |          |
| switch(config-copp)# |      |             | class       | lacp          | priority      | 2 rate 2000 | burst 64   |     |          |
| switch(config-copp)# |      |             | exit        |               |               |             |            |     |          |
| switch(config)#      |      |             | apply       | copp-policy   | My_CoppPolicy |             |            |     |          |
| switch(config)#      |      |             | exit        |               |               |             |            |     |          |
| switch#              | show | copp-policy |             | My_CoppPolicy |               |             |            |     |          |
| class                |      |             |             | drop priority | rate          | kbps burst  | kB min-max | pps | hardware |
| rate                 | kbps |             |             |               |               |             |            |     |          |
--------------------- ---- -------- --------- -------- ----------------- ---------
---------
| igmp    |       |     |          | 6   | 5000 | 60  | 411-9765  |     | 5156 |
| ------- | ----- | --- | -------- | --- | ---- | --- | --------- | --- | ---- |
| lacp    |       |     |          | 2   | 2000 | 64  | 164-3906  |     | 2343 |
| default |       |     |          | 1   | 6000 | 70  | 494-11718 |     | 6093 |
| Actual  | rates | in  | hardware |     |      |     |           |     |      |
Currently,theactualrateinhardwareisdeterminedbyamappingbasedontheconfiguredrate,shown
bythefollowingtableofthefirstnineactualrates.
TheMin-MaxPPSvaluesdisplayedinthefollowingtableareduetovaryingpacketsizes.Thesizeofthe
packetsbeingsentwilldeterminetheobservedminimumandmaximumpacketspersecond.
| Configured Rate (kbps) | Actual Rate in Hardware (kbps) | Min-Max PPS |
|------------------------|--------------------------------|-------------|
| | 1-468     |     |     |     | | 468  |     |     | | 38-906   | |   |     |
| ----------- | --- | --- | --- | ------ | --- | --- | ---------- | --- | --- |
| | 469-937   |     |     |     | | 937  |     |     | | 77-1828  | |   |     |
| | 938-1406  |     |     |     | | 1406 |     |     | | 115-2734 | |   |     |
| | 1407-1875 |     |     |     | | 1875 |     |     | | 154-3656 | |   |     |
| | 1876-2343 |     |     |     | | 2343 |     |     | | 192-4562 | |   |     |
| | 2344-2812 |     |     |     | | 2812 |     |     | | 231-5484 | |   |     |
| | 2813-3281 |     |     |     | | 3281 |     |     | | 270-6406 | |   |     |
| | 3282-3750 |     |     |     | | 3750 |     |     | | 308-7312 | |   |     |
| | 3751-4218 |     |     |     | | 4218 |     |     | | 347-8234 | |   |     |
Theprecedingtableshowsthefirstnineactualratesavailableinhardware.Higherratesareavailable.
The'show copp-policy statistics class <CLASS>'commandcanbeusedtoshowtheactualratein
hardwareforaspecificclass.The'show copp-policy <NAME>'commandcanbeusedtoshowtheactual
ratesforallclassesconfiguredinaspecificCoPPpolicy,ifthepolicyisactivelyapplied.
| CoPP    | commands |         |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |
| ------- | -------- | ------- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| Classes | of       | traffic |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |
Thedifferentclassesoftrafficthatcanbeindividuallyconfiguredare:
n acl-logging:AccessControlListloggingpackets.
n arp-broadcast:AddressResolutionProtocolpacketswithabroadcastdestinationMACaddress.
n arp-protect:AddressResolutionProtocolpacketsinterceptedandinspectedforARPprotection.
n arp-unicast:AddressResolutionProtocolpacketswithaswitchsystemdestinationMACaddress.
ControlPlanePolicing(CoPP)|8

n bfd-control: Bidirectional Forwarding Detection (BFD) control packets with a destination IP address

owned by the switch.

n bgp-ipv4: Border Gateway Protocol packets with a destination IPv4 address owned by the switch.

n dhcp: Dynamic Host Configuration Protocol packets. Also includes snooped DHCP packets if DHCP

snooping is enabled.

n hypertext: Hypertext Transfer Protocol (HTTP) or Hypertext Transfer Protocol Secure (HTTPS)

packets.

n icmp-broadcast-ipv4: Internet Control Message Protocol packets with a broadcast or multicast

destination IPv4 address.

n icmp-multicast-ipv6: Internet Control Message Protocol packets with a well-known multicast

destination IPv6 address.

n icmp-unicast-ipv4: Internet Control Message Protocol packets with a destination IPv4 address

owned by the switch.

n icmp-unicast-ipv6: Internet Control Message Protocol packets with a destination IPv6 address

owned by the switch.

n igmp: Internet Group Management Protocol packets.

n ip-exceptions: Routable packets that would exceed the MTU for the egress interface, packets that
trigger ICMP redirects, and packets with TTL/hop_limit=1 that are discarded when routing through
the switch.

n ip-lockdown: Packets denied and logged due to violation of allowed "IP address/VLAN/port/MAC

address" association.

n ipsec: Internet Protocol Security IPv4 or IPv6, unicast or configured multicast. All IPsec traffic

received by the CPU will be regulated by the ipsec class regardless of the encapsulated protocol.

n ipv4-options: Unicast IPv4 packets including option headers.

n lacp: Link Aggregation Control Protocol packets with the destination MAC address 01:80:c2:00:00:02.

n lldp: Link Layer Discovery Protocol packets with the destination MAC address 01:80:c2:00:00:0e.

n loop-protect: Loop Protection packets with the destination MAC address 09:00:09:09:13:a6.

n mirror-to-cpu: Packets from mirroring session configured to deliver to the console.

n mld: Multicast Listener Discovery packets of type V1 or V2 with an IPv6 address of FF00::/8, FF02::16

or FF02::2.

n mvrp: Multiple VLAN Registration Protocol packets with the destination MAC address

01:80:c2:00:00:20 or 01:80:c2:00:00:21

n ntp: Network Time Protocol packets with a destination IP address owned by the switch.

n ospf-multicast: Open Shortest Path First packets with the multicast destination IPv4 address
224.0.0.5 or 224.0.0.6, or IPv6 address FF02::5 or FF02::6. Also includes OSPF multicast packets
received from a 6in6 tunnel.

n ospf-unicast: Open Shortest Path First packets with a local destination IPv4 address or IPv6 address.

Also includes OSPF unicast packets received from a 6in6 tunnel.

n pim: Protocol Independent Multicast packets with the destination IPv4 address 224.0.0.13 or IPv6
address FF02::D, or Multicast Source Discovery Protocol (MSDP) packets, or with a destination IP
address owned by the switch. Also includes PIM packets received from a 6in6 tunnel.

n sflow: Packet headers sampled by the switch that will be sent to the sFlow collector.

n ssh: Secure Shell (SSH) or Secure File Transfer Protocol (SFTP) packets. Dropping ssh packets will

result in the connection to the CLI being lost.

AOS-CX 10.11 CoPP Guide | (8400 Switches)

9

n stp: Spanning Tree Protocol (STP) packets with the destination MAC address 01:80:c2:00:00:00 or

Per-VLAN Spanning Tree (PVST) packets with the destination MAC address 01:00:0c:cc:cc:cd.

n telnet: Secure Telnet packets.

n udld: Unidirectional Link Detection packets with the destination MAC address 01:00:0c:cc:cc:cc or

00:e0:52:00:00:00, or Cisco Discovery Protocol packets with the destination MAC address
01:00:0c:cc:cc:cc.

n unknown-multicast: Packets with an unknown multicast destination IP address. Also includes

unknown multicast packets received from a 6in6 tunnel.

n unresolved-ip-unicast: Packets to be software forwarded by the management processor.

n vrrp: Virtual Router Redundancy Protocol packets with the destination IPv4 address 224.0.0.18 or

IPv6 address FF02::12 or VSX-Keepalive.

To regulate any other traffic destined for the CPU, every CoPP policy has a class named default that can
also be configured to regulate other traffic to the CPU or prevent other traffic from being delivered.

All IPsec traffic received by the CPU will be regulated by the ipsec class regardless of the encapsulated protocol.

When ARP protection is enabled on the system, all ARP traffic will be regulated by the arp-protect class,
regardless of the ARP destination and configuration of arp-broadcast or arp-unicast CoPP classes.

apply copp-policy
apply copp-policy { <NAME> | default }
no apply copp-policy <NAME>

Description

Applies a CoPP policy to the switch, replacing the policy that is in effect. There may be a brief
interruption in traffic flow to the management processor while the switch implements the change.

Enter the no apply copp-policy <NAME> command with the name of a CoPP policy to unapply a CoPP
policy and apply the default CoPP policy. This will only take effect if the specified policy is actively
applied. Since there must always be a CoPP policy applied, this command effectively attempts to replace
the applied CoPP policy with the default CoPP policy. The default CoPP policy cannot be unapplied using
this command.

Parameter

<NAME>

default

Usage

Description

Specifies the name of the policy to apply. Length: 1 to 64
characters.

Applies the default policy.

If the new policy cannot be applied (for example, due to a lack of hardware resources), the previous
policy remains in effect. Use the show copp-policy command to determine which policy is in effect.

Examples

Applying a policy named My_CoppPolicy:

switch(config)# apply copp-policy My_CoppPolicy

Control Plane Policing (CoPP) | 10

Applyingthedefaultpolicy:
| switch(config)# | apply | copp-policy | default |
| --------------- | ----- | ----------- | ------- |
UnapplyingapolicynamedMy_CoppPolicy:
| switch(config)#     | no      | apply copp-policy | My_CoppPolicy |
| ------------------- | ------- | ----------------- | ------------- |
| Command History     |         |                   |               |
| Release             |         |                   | Modification  |
| 10.07orearlier      |         |                   | --            |
| Command Information |         |                   |               |
| Platforms           | Command | context           | Authority     |
Allplatforms config Administratorsorlocalusergroupmemberswithexecutionrights
forthiscommand.
class
class <CLASS> {drop | priority <PRIORITY> rate <RATE> [burst <BURST>]}
no class <CLASS> {drop | priority <PRIORITY> rate <RATE> [burst <BURST>]}
Description
AddsaclasstoaCoPPpolicy.Iftheclassexists,theexistingclassismodified.Changesmadetoanactive
(applied)policytakeeffectimmediately.
Whenaddingormodifyingaclassinanactivepolicy,CoPPimmediatelyactivatesthechangeonthe
switch.Incaseswhereinsufficienthardwareresourcesexisttosupportaclassoritsaction,CoPPfailsto
activatethechangedclassontheswitch.Whenthisfailureoccurs,theactiveconfigurationontheswitch
willbeoutofsyncwithitsdefinition.Todiagnoseandremedythissituation:
n Usetheshow copp-policycommandtodeterminewhichclassesareoutofsyncbetweentheactive
policyanditsdefinition.
n Usethereset copp-policycommandtosynchronizetheactivepolicywithitsdefinition.This
synchronizationchangestheclassesinthedefinitiontomatchtheclassesintheactivepolicy.
ThenoformofthiscommandremovesaclassfromaCoPPpolicy.Trafficfortheremovedclassthatis
destinedfortheprocessorwillbeincludedinthedefaultclass.Tostopaclassoftrafficfromreaching
theprocessor,settheclassactiontodrop.
Removingthe'mirror-to-cpu'classfromtheappliedCoPPpolicywillcleartheCoPPstatisticsforthe
mirror-to-cpuclass.
Configuringthe'mirror-to-cpu'classafteritwaspreviouslyremovedfromtheappliedCoPPpolicywill
alsoclearthestatisticsforthe'mirror-to-cpu'class,possiblyresultinginanetdecreasetotheCoPP
statisticsrepresentedinthedefaultclass.
11
| AOS-CX10.11CoPPGuide| | (8400Switches) |     |     |
| --------------------- | -------------- | --- | --- |

| Parameter |     |     | Description                          |     |
| --------- | --- | --- | ------------------------------------ | --- |
| <CLASS>   |     |     | Specifiestheclasstoaddoredit.        |     |
| drop      |     |     | Droppacketsmatchingtheselectedclass. |     |
priority <PRIORITY> Specifiesthepriorityforpacketsmatchingtheselectedclass.
Range:0to10.
rate <RATE> Specifiesthemaximumrate,inkilobitspersecond(Kb/s),for
packetsmatchingtheselectedclass.Range:1to999999.
burst <BURST>
Specifiesthemaximumburstsize,inkilobytes,forpackets
matchingtheselectedclass.Range:1to130.
Examples
AddingaclasstohandleLACPtrafficwithpriorityof2andrateof2000:
| switch(config-copp)# |     | class lacp | priority | 2 rate 2000 |
| -------------------- | --- | ---------- | -------- | ----------- |
ModifyingtheclasstodropLLDPpackets:
| switch(config-copp)# |     | class lldp | drop |     |
| -------------------- | --- | ---------- | ---- | --- |
RemovingtheclassthathandlesLLDPpackets.LLDPtrafficdestinedtotheprocessorwillbeincludedin
thedefaultclass.
| switch(config-copp)# |         | no class | lldp         |     |
| -------------------- | ------- | -------- | ------------ | --- |
| Command History      |         |          |              |     |
| Release              |         |          | Modification |     |
| 10.07orearlier       |         |          | --           |     |
| Command Information  |         |          |              |     |
| Platforms            | Command | context  | Authority    |     |
Allplatforms config-copp Administratorsorlocalusergroupmemberswithexecutionrights
forthiscommand.
| clear copp-policy |            | statistics |     |     |
| ----------------- | ---------- | ---------- | --- | --- |
| clear copp-policy | statistics |            |     |     |
Description
ResetsstatisticsforallCoPPclassestozero.
Examples
Displayingandthenresettingstatisticsforallclassesintheactivepolicy:
ControlPlanePolicing(CoPP)|12

| switch#    |     | show copp-policy |             | statistics |            |     |     |     |
| ---------- | --- | ---------------- | ----------- | ---------- | ---------- | --- | --- | --- |
| Statistics |     | for              | CoPP policy |            | 'default': |     |     |     |
Totals:
|            | bytes                   | passed            | :           | 64000      |            | bytes dropped            | : 96000 |     |
| ---------- | ----------------------- | ----------------- | ----------- | ---------- | ---------- | ------------------------ | ------- | --- |
|            | packets                 | passed            | :           | 1000       |            | packets dropped          | : 1500  |     |
|            | avg_packet_size_passed: |                   |             |            | 64         | avg_packet_size_dropped: |         | 64  |
| Class:     | default                 |                   |             |            |            |                          |         |     |
|            | bytes                   | passed            | :           | 25600      |            | bytes dropped            | : 38400 |     |
|            | packets                 | passed            | :           | 400        |            | packets dropped          | : 600   |     |
|            | avg_packet_size_passed: |                   |             |            | 64         | avg_packet_size_dropped: |         | 64  |
| Class:     | acl-logging             |                   |             |            |            |                          |         |     |
|            | bytes                   | passed            | :           | 6400       |            | bytes dropped            | : 6400  |     |
|            | packets                 | passed            | :           | 100        |            | packets dropped          | : 100   |     |
|            | avg_packet_size_passed: |                   |             |            | 64         | avg_packet_size_dropped: |         | 64  |
| Class:     | arp-broadcast           |                   |             |            |            |                          |         |     |
|            | bytes                   | passed            | :           | 32000      |            | bytes dropped            | : 51200 |     |
|            | packets                 | passed            | :           | 500        |            | packets dropped          | : 800   |     |
|            | avg_packet_size_passed: |                   |             |            | 64         | avg_packet_size_dropped: |         | 64  |
|            |                         | <--OUTPUT         | OMITTED     | FOR        | BREVITY--> |                          |         |     |
| switch#    |                         | clear copp-policy |             | statistics |            |                          |         |     |
| switch#    |                         | show copp-policy  |             | statistics |            |                          |         |     |
| Statistics |                         | for               | CoPP policy |            | 'default': |                          |         |     |
Totals:
|                | bytes                   | passed      | :       | 0       |              | bytes dropped            | : 0 |     |
| -------------- | ----------------------- | ----------- | ------- | ------- | ------------ | ------------------------ | --- | --- |
|                | packets                 | passed      | :       | 0       |              | packets dropped          | : 0 |     |
|                | avg_packet_size_passed: |             |         |         | 0            | avg_packet_size_dropped: |     | 0   |
| Class:         | default                 |             |         |         |              |                          |     |     |
|                | bytes                   | passed      | :       | 0       |              | bytes dropped            | : 0 |     |
|                | packets                 | passed      | :       | 0       |              | packets dropped          | : 0 |     |
|                | avg_packet_size_passed: |             |         |         | 0            | avg_packet_size_dropped: |     | 0   |
| Class:         | acl-logging             |             |         |         |              |                          |     |     |
|                | bytes                   | passed      | :       | 0       |              | bytes dropped            | : 0 |     |
|                | packets                 | passed      | :       | 0       |              | packets dropped          | : 0 |     |
|                | avg_packet_size_passed: |             |         |         | 0            | avg_packet_size_dropped: |     | 0   |
| Class:         | arp-broadcast           |             |         |         |              |                          |     |     |
|                | bytes                   | passed      | :       | 0       |              | bytes dropped            | : 0 |     |
|                | packets                 | passed      | :       | 0       |              | packets dropped          | : 0 |     |
|                | avg_packet_size_passed: |             |         |         | 0            | avg_packet_size_dropped: |     | 0   |
|                |                         | <--OUTPUT   | OMITTED | FOR     | BREVITY-->   |                          |     |     |
| Command        |                         | History     |         |         |              |                          |     |     |
| Release        |                         |             |         |         | Modification |                          |     |     |
| 10.07orearlier |                         |             |         |         | --           |                          |     |     |
| Command        |                         | Information |         |         |              |                          |     |     |
| Platforms      |                         | Command     |         | context | Authority    |                          |     |     |
Allplatforms Operator(>)orManager OperatorsorAdministratorsorlocalusergroupmemberswith
|     |     | (#) |     |     | executionrightsforthiscommand.Operatorscanexecutethis |     |     |     |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | ----------------------------------------------------- | --- | --- | --- |
commandfromtheoperatorcontext(>)only.
copp-policy
| copp-policy    |     | {<NAME> | | default |     | [revert]} |     |     |     |
| -------------- | --- | ------- | --------- | --- | --------- | --- | --- | --- |
| no copp-policy |     | <NAME>  |           |     |           |     |     |     |
13
| AOS-CX10.11CoPPGuide| |     | (8400Switches) |     |     |     |     |     |     |
| --------------------- | --- | -------------- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |

Description
CreatesaCoPPpolicyandswitchestotheconfig-coppcontextforthepolicy.Or,ifthespecifiedpolicy
exists,switchestotheconfig-coppcontextforthepolicy.Apredefinedpolicy,nameddefault,contains
factorydefaultclassesandisappliedtotheswitchatfirststartup.Thispolicycannotbedeleted,butits
configurationcanbechanged.
ThenoformofthiscommandremovesaCoPPpolicy.Ifapolicyisactive(applied),itcannotberemoved
.Itmustbereplacedwithanotherpolicybeforeitcanberemoved.
| Parameter |     | Description                                         |
| --------- | --- | --------------------------------------------------- |
| <NAME>    |     | Specifiesthenameofthepolicytoaddoredit.Length:1to64 |
characters.Thenamemustnotbeasubstringofanyofthe
followingreservedwords:default,factory-default,commands,
configuration,orstatistics.
| default |     | SpecifiesthedefaultCoPPpolicy.Usethisdefaultpolicyto |
| ------- | --- | ---------------------------------------------------- |
configurethedefaultpolicy.
revert
SetsthedefaultCoPPpolicytoitsfactorysettings.
Examples
CreatingapolicynamedMy_CoppPolicy:
| switch(config)# | copp-policy | My_CoppPolicy |
| --------------- | ----------- | ------------- |
switch(config-copp)#
RemovingapolicynamedMy_CoppPolicy:
| switch(config)# | no copp-policy | My_CoppPolicy |
| --------------- | -------------- | ------------- |
Settingthedefaultpolicytoitsfactorysettings:
| switch(config)# | copp-policy | default revert |
| --------------- | ----------- | -------------- |
UnapplyingthepolicynamedMy_CoppPolicy:
| switch(config)# | no apply | copp-policy My_CoppPolicy |
| --------------- | -------- | ------------------------- |
Command History
| Release        |     | Modification |
| -------------- | --- | ------------ |
| 10.07orearlier |     | --           |
Command Information
ControlPlanePolicing(CoPP)|14

| Platforms | Command | context | Authority |     |
| --------- | ------- | ------- | --------- | --- |
Allplatforms config Administratorsorlocalusergroupmemberswithexecutionrights
forthiscommand.
default-class
| default-class | priority | <PRIORITY> | rate <RATE> | [burst <BURST>] |
| ------------- | -------- | ---------- | ----------- | --------------- |
Description
ConfiguresthedefaultclassthatisautomaticallydefinedforallCoPPpolicies.Thedefaultclasscannot
beremoved,butitsconfigurationcanbechanged.Thedefaultclassisappliedtotrafficthatdoesnot
matchanyotherclassdefinedforapolicy.
| Parameter |     |     | Description |     |
| --------- | --- | --- | ----------- | --- |
priority <PRIORITY> Specifiesthepriorityforpacketsmatchingtheselectedclass.
Range:0to10.
rate <RATE> Specifiesthemaximumrate,inkilobitspersecond(Kb/s),for
packetsmatchingtheselectedclass.Range:1to999999.
burst <BURST> Specifiesthemaximumburstsize,inkilobytes,forpackets
matchingtheselectedclass.Range:1to130.
Example
Settingthedefaultclasstoapriorityof2andrateof2000:
| switch(config-copp)# |             | default-class | priority     | 2 rate 2000 |
| -------------------- | ----------- | ------------- | ------------ | ----------- |
| Command              | History     |               |              |             |
| Release              |             |               | Modification |             |
| 10.07orearlier       |             |               | --           |             |
| Command              | Information |               |              |             |
| Platforms            | Command     | context       | Authority    |             |
Allplatforms config-copp Administratorsorlocalusergroupmemberswithexecutionrights
forthiscommand.
| reset copp-policy |          |           |     |     |
| ----------------- | -------- | --------- | --- | --- |
| reset copp-policy | { <NAME> | | default | }   |     |
Description
ResetsanactiveCoPPpolicytomatchthesettingsthatarecurrentlyineffectfortheactivepolicyonthe
switch.Changesmadetotheactivepolicythatcouldnotbeactivatedareremovedfromtheactive
15
| AOS-CX10.11CoPPGuide| | (8400Switches) |     |     |     |
| --------------------- | -------------- | --- | --- | --- |

policy.WhentheswitchfailstoaddormodifyaclassinanactiveCoPPpolicy,itispossibletheactive
policysettingsontheswitchmaybeoutofsyncwiththosedefinedinthepolicy.
| Parameter |     |     |     | Description                                     |     |     |     |     |
| --------- | --- | --- | --- | ----------------------------------------------- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| <NAME>    |     |     |     | Specifiesthenameofthepolicytoreset.Length:1to64 |     |     |     |     |
characters.
| default |     |     |     | Resetsthedefaultpolicytomatchitsactivesettings. |     |     |     |     |
| ------- | --- | --- | --- | ----------------------------------------------- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
Examples
ResettingapolicynamedMy_CoppPolicy:
| switch# show | copp-policy |      | My_CoppPolicy |      |            |            |     |          |
| ------------ | ----------- | ---- | ------------- | ---- | ---------- | ---------- | --- | -------- |
| class        |             | drop | priority      | rate | kbps burst | kB min-max | pps | hardware |
rate kbps
--------------------- ---- -------- --------- -------- ----------------- ---------
---------
| igmp                 |             |       | 6                | 5000     | 60            | 411-9765   |     | 5156     |
| -------------------- | ----------- | ----- | ---------------- | -------- | ------------- | ---------- | --- | -------- |
| lacp                 |             |       | 2                | 2000     | 64            | 164-3906   |     | 2343     |
| default              |             |       | 1                | 6000     | 70            | 494-11718  |     | 6093     |
| switch# config       | terminal    |       |                  |          |               |            |     |          |
| switch(config)#      | copp-policy |       | My_CoppPolicy    |          |               |            |     |          |
| switch(config-copp)# |             | class | stp              | priority | 4 rate 4000   | burst 60   |     |          |
| switch(config-copp)# |             | do    | show copp-policy |          | My_CoppPolicy |            |     |          |
| class                |             | drop  | priority         | rate     | kbps burst    | kB min-max | pps | hardware |
rate kbps
--------------------- ---- -------- --------- -------- ----------------- ---------
---------
| igmp    |     |     | 6   | 5000 | 60  | 411-9765  |     | 5156 |
| ------- | --- | --- | --- | ---- | --- | --------- | --- | ---- |
| lacp    |     |     | 2   | 2000 | 64  | 164-3906  |     | 2343 |
| default |     |     | 1   | 6000 | 70  | 494-11718 |     | 6093 |
% Warning: user-specified classes in CoPP policy My_CoppPolicy do not match
| active configuration. |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |
| --------------------- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
switch(config-copp)# do show copp-policy My_CoppPolicy configuration
| class |     | drop | priority | rate | kbps burst | kB min-max | pps | applied |
| ----- | --- | ---- | -------- | ---- | ---------- | ---------- | --- | ------- |
--------------------- ---- -------- --------- -------- ----------------- -------
| igmp    |     |     | 6   | 5000 | 60  | 411-9765  |     | yes |
| ------- | --- | --- | --- | ---- | --- | --------- | --- | --- |
| lacp    |     |     | 2   | 2000 | 64  | 164-3906  |     | yes |
| stp     |     |     | 4   | 4000 | 60  | 329-7812  |     | no  |
| default |     |     | 1   | 6000 | 70  | 494-11718 |     | yes |
% Warning: user-specified classes in CoPP policy My_CoppPolicy do not match
| active configuration. |       |             |             |               |            |            |     |          |
| --------------------- | ----- | ----------- | ----------- | ------------- | ---------- | ---------- | --- | -------- |
| switch(config-copp)#  |       | exit        |             |               |            |            |     |          |
| switch(config)#       | reset | copp-policy |             | My_CoppPolicy |            |            |     |          |
| switch(config)#       | do    | show        | copp-policy | My_CoppPolicy |            |            |     |          |
| class                 |       | drop        | priority    | rate          | kbps burst | kB min-max | pps | hardware |
rate kbps
--------------------- ---- -------- --------- -------- ----------------- ---------
---------
| igmp    |     |     | 6   | 5000 | 60  | 411-9765  |     | 5156 |
| ------- | --- | --- | --- | ---- | --- | --------- | --- | ---- |
| lacp    |     |     | 2   | 2000 | 64  | 164-3906  |     | 2343 |
| default |     |     | 1   | 6000 | 70  | 494-11718 |     | 6093 |
Resettingthedefaultpolicy:
| switch(config)# | reset | copp-policy |     | default |     |     |     |     |
| --------------- | ----- | ----------- | --- | ------- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
ControlPlanePolicing(CoPP)|16

| Command History     |         |         |              |
| ------------------- | ------- | ------- | ------------ |
| Release             |         |         | Modification |
| 10.07orearlier      |         |         | --           |
| Command Information |         |         |              |
| Platforms           | Command | context | Authority    |
Allplatforms config Administratorsorlocalusergroupmemberswithexecutionrights
forthiscommand.
show copp-policy
show copp-policy [<NAME> | default] [commands] [configuration] [vsx-peer]
Description
ShowsCoPPpolicysettingsforaspecificCoPPpolicy.Whenenteredwithoutspecifyingeitheranameor
thedefaultparameter,showsalltheCoPPpolicysettingsthatareactiveontheswitchandhave
successfullybeenprogrammedintothehardware.
Awarningisdisplayedif:
n Theactiveanduser-specifiedapplicationsofapolicydonotmatch.
n Theactiveanduser-specifiedconfigurationsofapolicydonotmatch.
| Parameter |     |     | Description                                           |
| --------- | --- | --- | ----------------------------------------------------- |
| <NAME>    |     |     | Specifiesthenameofthepolicyforwhichtodisplaysettings. |
Length:1to64characters.
default
DisplaysCoPPsettingsforthedefaultpolicy.
| commands |     |     | DisplaysoutputasCLIcommands. |
| -------- | --- | --- | ---------------------------- |
configuration Displaysuser-specifiedCoPPsettingsandnottheactivesettings.
vsx-peer ShowstheoutputfromtheVSXpeerswitch.Iftheswitchesdonot
havetheVSXconfigurationortheISLisdown,theoutputfromthe
VSXpeerswitchisnotdisplayed.Thisparameterisavailableon
switchesthatsupportVSX.
Example
DisplayingtheCoPPpoliciesdefinedintheconfigurationandtheactiveapplication:
switch#
show copp-policy
| applied | copp_policy_name |     |     |
| ------- | ---------------- | --- | --- |
| ------- | ---------------- |     |     |
My_CoppPolicy
| applied | default |     |     |
| ------- | ------- | --- | --- |
switch#
DisplayingtheactiveconfigurationofallCoPPpoliciesasCLIcommands:
17
| AOS-CX10.11CoPPGuide| | (8400Switches) |     |     |
| --------------------- | -------------- | --- | --- |

| switch#     |               | show copp-policy |          | commands |                |        |       |          |     |     |
| ----------- | ------------- | ---------------- | -------- | -------- | -------------- | ------ | ----- | -------- | --- | --- |
| copp-policy |               | My_CoppPolicy    |          |          |                |        |       |          |     |     |
|             | class         | igmp             | priority | 6        | rate           | 5000   | burst | 60       |     |     |
|             | class         | lacp             | priority | 2        | rate           | 2000   | burst | 64       |     |     |
|             | default-class |                  | priority |          | 1 rate         | 6000   | burst | 70       |     |     |
| copp-policy |               | default          |          |          |                |        |       |          |     |     |
|             | class         | acl-logging      |          | priority |                | 0 rate | 468   | burst 4  |     |     |
|             | class         | arp-broadcast    |          | priority |                | 4 rate | 1406  | burst 4  |     |     |
|             | class         | arp-protect      |          | priority |                | 4 rate | 2343  | burst 4  |     |     |
|             | class         | arp-unicast      |          | priority |                | 5 rate | 937   | burst 4  |     |     |
|             | class         | bfd-control      |          | priority |                | 9 rate | 937   | burst 16 |     |     |
|             |               | <--OUTPUT        | OMITTED  |          | FOR BREVITY--> |        |       |          |     |     |
|             | default-class |                  | priority |          | 1 rate         | 17343  | burst | 16       |     |     |
| apply       | copp-policy   |                  | default  |          |                |        |       |          |     |     |
switch#
Displayingthedefaultpolicy:
| switch# |      | show copp-policy |     | default |          |     |           |                  |     |          |
| ------- | ---- | ---------------- | --- | ------- | -------- | --- | --------- | ---------------- | --- | -------- |
| class   |      |                  |     | drop    | priority |     | rate kbps | burst kB min-max | pps | hardware |
| rate    | kbps |                  |     |         |          |     |           |                  |     |          |
--------------------- ---- -------- --------- -------- ----------------- ---------
---------
| acl-logging    |             |         |     |         | 0          |              | 468   | 4 38-906      |     | 468   |
| -------------- | ----------- | ------- | --- | ------- | ---------- | ------------ | ----- | ------------- | --- | ----- |
| arp-broadcast  |             |         |     |         | 4          |              | 1406  | 4 115-2734    |     | 1406  |
| arp-protect    |             |         |     |         | 4          |              | 2343  | 4 192-4562    |     | 2343  |
| arp-unicast    |             |         |     |         | 5          |              | 937   | 4 77-1828     |     | 937   |
| bfd-control    |             |         |     |         | 9          |              | 937   | 16 77-1828    |     | 937   |
|                | <--OUTPUT   | OMITTED |     | FOR     | BREVITY--> |              |       |               |     |       |
| default        |             |         |     |         | 1          |              | 17343 | 16 1427-33859 |     | 17343 |
| Command        | History     |         |     |         |            |              |       |               |     |       |
| Release        |             |         |     |         |            | Modification |       |               |     |       |
| 10.07orearlier |             |         |     |         |            | --           |       |               |     |       |
| Command        | Information |         |     |         |            |              |       |               |     |       |
| Platforms      |             | Command |     | context |            | Authority    |       |               |     |       |
Allplatforms Operator(>)orManager OperatorsorAdministratorsorlocalusergroupmemberswith
|     |     | (#) |     |     |     | executionrightsforthiscommand.Operatorscanexecutethis |     |     |     |     |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | ----------------------------------------------------- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
commandfromtheoperatorcontext(>)only.
| show | copp-policy |                 | factory-default |     |            |     |            |     |     |     |
| ---- | ----------- | --------------- | --------------- | --- | ---------- | --- | ---------- | --- | --- | --- |
| show | copp-policy | factory-default |                 |     | [commands] |     | [vsx-peer] |     |     |     |
Description
Displaytheconfigurationforthefactory-defaultCoPPpolicy.
ControlPlanePolicing(CoPP)|18

| Parameter |     |     |     | Description                  |     |     |     |     |
| --------- | --- | --- | --- | ---------------------------- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| commands  |     |     |     | DisplaysoutputasCLIcommands. |     |     |     |     |
vsx-peer ShowstheoutputfromtheVSXpeerswitch.Iftheswitchesdonot
havetheVSXconfigurationortheISLisdown,theoutputfromthe
VSXpeerswitchisnotdisplayed.Thisparameterisavailableon
switchesthatsupportVSX.
Example
Displayingthefactory-defaultpolicy:
| switch# show | copp-policy |     | factory-default |     |           |                  |     |     |
| ------------ | ----------- | --- | --------------- | --- | --------- | ---------------- | --- | --- |
| class        |             |     | drop priority   |     | rate kbps | burst kB min-max | pps |     |
--------------------- ---- -------- --------- -------- -----------------
| acl-logging   |         |     | 0              |     | 468   | 4 38-906      |     |     |
| ------------- | ------- | --- | -------------- | --- | ----- | ------------- | --- | --- |
| arp-broadcast |         |     | 4              |     | 1406  | 4 115-2734    |     |     |
| arp-protect   |         |     | 4              |     | 2343  | 4 192-4562    |     |     |
| arp-unicast   |         |     | 5              |     | 937   | 4 77-1828     |     |     |
| bfd-control   |         |     | 9              |     | 937   | 16 77-1828    |     |     |
| <--OUTPUT     | OMITTED |     | FOR BREVITY--> |     |       |               |     |     |
| default       |         |     | 1              |     | 17343 | 16 1427-33859 |     |     |
DisplayingtheactiveconfigurationofMy_CoppPolicy(My_CoppPolicyisapplied):
| switch# config  |     | terminal |               |               |               |                  |     |          |
| --------------- | --- | -------- | ------------- | ------------- | ------------- | ---------------- | --- | -------- |
| switch(config)# |     | apply    | copp-policy   | My_CoppPolicy |               |                  |     |          |
| switch(config)# |     | do show  | copp-policy   |               | My_CoppPolicy |                  |     |          |
| class           |     |          | drop priority |               | rate kbps     | burst kB min-max | pps | hardware |
rate kbps
--------------------- ---- -------- --------- -------- ----------------- ---------
---------
| igmp    |     |     | 6   |     | 5000 | 60 411-9765  |     | 5156 |
| ------- | --- | --- | --- | --- | ---- | ------------ | --- | ---- |
| lacp    |     |     | 2   |     | 2000 | 64 164-3906  |     | 2343 |
| default |     |     | 1   |     | 6000 | 70 494-11718 |     | 6093 |
DisplayingtheactiveconfigurationofMy_CoppPolicyasCLIcommands:
| switch# show      | copp-policy   |               | My_CoppPolicy |      | commands |     |     |     |
| ----------------- | ------------- | ------------- | ------------- | ---- | -------- | --- | --- | --- |
| copp-policy       | My_CoppPolicy |               |               |      |          |     |     |     |
| class             | igmp          | priority      | 6 rate        | 5000 | burst 60 |     |     |     |
| class             | lacp          | priority      | 2 rate        | 2000 | burst 64 |     |     |     |
| default-class     |               | priority      | 1 rate        | 6000 | burst    | 70  |     |     |
| apply copp-policy |               | My_CoppPolicy |               |      |          |     |     |     |
Displayingtheuser-specifiedconfigurationofMy_CoppPolicy:
| switch# show | copp-policy |     | My_CoppPolicy |     | configuration |                  |     |         |
| ------------ | ----------- | --- | ------------- | --- | ------------- | ---------------- | --- | ------- |
| class        |             |     | drop priority |     | rate kbps     | burst kB min-max | pps | applied |
--------------------- ---- -------- --------- -------- ----------------- -------
| igmp    |     |     | 6   |     | 5000 | 60 411-9765  |     | yes |
| ------- | --- | --- | --- | --- | ---- | ------------ | --- | --- |
| lacp    |     |     | 2   |     | 2000 | 64 164-3906  |     | yes |
| default |     |     | 1   |     | 6000 | 70 494-11718 |     | yes |
Displayingtheuser-specifiedconfigurationofMy_CoppPolicyasCLIcommands:
19
AOS-CX10.11CoPPGuide| (8400Switches)

| switch#        |               | show copp-policy |               | My_CoppPolicy |              | commands configuration |
| -------------- | ------------- | ---------------- | ------------- | ------------- | ------------ | ---------------------- |
| copp-policy    |               | My_CoppPolicy    |               |               |              |                        |
|                | class         | igmp             | priority      | 6 rate        | 5000         | burst 60               |
|                | class         | lacp             | priority      | 2 rate        | 2000         | burst 64               |
|                | default-class |                  | priority      | 1 rate        | 6000         | burst 70               |
| apply          | copp-policy   |                  | My_CoppPolicy |               |              |                        |
| Command        | History       |                  |               |               |              |                        |
| Release        |               |                  |               |               | Modification |                        |
| 10.07orearlier |               |                  |               |               | --           |                        |
| Command        | Information   |                  |               |               |              |                        |
| Platforms      |               | Command          |               | context       | Authority    |                        |
Allplatforms Operator(>)orManager OperatorsorAdministratorsorlocalusergroupmemberswith
|     |     | (#) |     |     | executionrightsforthiscommand.Operatorscanexecutethis |     |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | ----------------------------------------------------- | --- |
commandfromtheoperatorcontext(>)only.
| show | copp-policy |     | statistics |     |     |     |
| ---- | ----------- | --- | ---------- | --- | --- | --- |
show copp-policy statistics [class <CLASS> | default-class | non-zero] [vsx-peer]
Description
Displaysstatisticsforallclasses,asingleclass,orallclasseswithnon-zerostatisticsintheactiveCoPP
policy.
| Parameter     |     |     |     |     | Description                                   |     |
| ------------- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --------------------------------------------- | --- |
| <CLASS>       |     |     |     |     | Specifiestheclassforwhichtodisplaystatistics. |     |
| default-class |     |     |     |     | Displaysstatisticsforthedefaultclass.         |     |
non-zero Displaysstatisticsforallclasseswithnon-zerostatistics.
vsx-peer ShowstheoutputfromtheVSXpeerswitch.Iftheswitchesdonot
havetheVSXconfigurationortheISLisdown,theoutputfromthe
VSXpeerswitchisnotdisplayed.Thisparameterisavailableon
switchesthatsupportVSX.
Usage
Ifasingleclassisspecified,thepriority,rate,andburstsizethathasbeenprogrammedinhardwarefor
thatclasswillbeshown.Thiscommandwillfailwithanalertiftheuserspecifiesaclassthatisnot
configuredfortheactivelyappliedCoPPpolicy.
Examples
ApplyingthedefaultCoPPpolicyanddisplayingstatisticsforallclassesintheactivelyappliedpolicy:
Theratedisplayedistheactualrateinhardware.
ControlPlanePolicing(CoPP)|20

| switch# | config |     | terminal |     |     |     |     |     |     |
| ------- | ------ | --- | -------- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
switch(config)#
|                 |      |             | apply       | copp-policy |            | default |     |     |     |
| --------------- | ---- | ----------- | ----------- | ----------- | ---------- | ------- | --- | --- | --- |
| switch(config)# |      |             | exit        |             |            |         |     |     |     |
| switch#         | show | copp-policy |             | statistics  |            |         |     |     |     |
| Statistics      |      | for         | CoPP policy |             | 'default': |         |     |     |     |
Totals:
| bytes                   |     | passed | :   | 64000 |     |     | bytes dropped            | : 96000 |     |
| ----------------------- | --- | ------ | --- | ----- | --- | --- | ------------------------ | ------- | --- |
| packets                 |     | passed | :   | 1000  |     |     | packets dropped          | : 1500  |     |
| avg_packet_size_passed: |     |        |     |       | 64  |     | avg_packet_size_dropped: |         | 64  |
Class: default
| bytes                   |     | passed | :   | 25600 |     |     | bytes dropped            | : 38400 |     |
| ----------------------- | --- | ------ | --- | ----- | --- | --- | ------------------------ | ------- | --- |
| packets                 |     | passed | :   | 400   |     |     | packets dropped          | : 600   |     |
| avg_packet_size_passed: |     |        |     |       | 64  |     | avg_packet_size_dropped: |         | 64  |
Class: acl-logging
| bytes                   |     | passed | :   | 6400 |     |     | bytes dropped            | : 6400 |     |
| ----------------------- | --- | ------ | --- | ---- | --- | --- | ------------------------ | ------ | --- |
| packets                 |     | passed | :   | 100  |     |     | packets dropped          | : 100  |     |
| avg_packet_size_passed: |     |        |     |      | 64  |     | avg_packet_size_dropped: |        | 64  |
Class: arp-broadcast
| bytes                   |           | passed | :       | 32000 |            |     | bytes dropped            | : 51200 |     |
| ----------------------- | --------- | ------ | ------- | ----- | ---------- | --- | ------------------------ | ------- | --- |
| packets                 |           | passed | :       | 500   |            |     | packets dropped          | : 800   |     |
| avg_packet_size_passed: |           |        |         |       | 64         |     | avg_packet_size_dropped: |         | 64  |
|                         | <--OUTPUT |        | OMITTED | FOR   | BREVITY--> |     |                          |         |     |
Displayingstatisticsforthedefaultclassintheactivepolicy:
| switch(config)# |     |     | show copp-policy |     |            | statistics | default-class |     |     |
| --------------- | --- | --- | ---------------- | --- | ---------- | ---------- | ------------- | --- | --- |
| Statistics      |     | for | CoPP policy      |     | 'default': |            |               |     |     |
Class: default
| Description:            |        | Default |         |       |       |     |                          |         |     |
| ----------------------- | ------ | ------- | ------- | ----- | ----- | --- | ------------------------ | ------- | --- |
| priority                |        |         |         | :     | 1     |     |                          |         |     |
| rate                    | (kbps) |         |         | :     | 17343 |     |                          |         |     |
| burst                   |        | size    | (bytes) | :     | 16    |     |                          |         |     |
| bytes                   |        | passed  | :       | 25600 |       |     | bytes dropped            | : 38400 |     |
| packets                 |        | passed  | :       | 400   |       |     | packets dropped          | : 600   |     |
| avg_packet_size_passed: |        |         |         |       | 64    |     | avg_packet_size_dropped: |         | 64  |
Displayingstatisticsfortheclassarp-broadcastintheactivelyappliedpolicy:
| switch#    | show | copp-policy |             | statistics |            | class | arp-broadcast |     |     |
| ---------- | ---- | ----------- | ----------- | ---------- | ---------- | ----- | ------------- | --- | --- |
| Statistics |      | for         | CoPP policy |            | 'default': |       |               |     |     |
Class: arp-broadcast
| Description:            |             | Address | Resolution |       | Protocol |              | broadcast                |         |     |
| ----------------------- | ----------- | ------- | ---------- | ----- | -------- | ------------ | ------------------------ | ------- | --- |
| priority                |             |         |            | :     | 4        |              |                          |         |     |
| rate                    | (kbps)      |         |            | :     | 1406     |              |                          |         |     |
| burst                   |             | size    | (bytes)    | :     | 4        |              |                          |         |     |
| bytes                   |             | passed  | :          | 32000 |          |              | bytes dropped            | : 51200 |     |
| packets                 |             | passed  | :          | 500   |          |              | packets dropped          | : 800   |     |
| avg_packet_size_passed: |             |         |            |       | 64       |              | avg_packet_size_dropped: |         | 64  |
| Command                 | History     |         |            |       |          |              |                          |         |     |
| Release                 |             |         |            |       |          | Modification |                          |         |     |
| 10.07orearlier          |             |         |            |       |          | --           |                          |         |     |
| Command                 | Information |         |            |       |          |              |                          |         |     |
21
AOS-CX10.11CoPPGuide| (8400Switches)

| Platforms |     | Command | context | Authority |
| --------- | --- | ------- | ------- | --------- |
Allplatforms OperatorsorAdministratorsorlocalusergroupmemberswith
Operator(>)orManager
|     |     | (#) |     | executionrightsforthiscommand.Operatorscanexecutethis |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | ----------------------------------------------------- |
commandfromtheoperatorcontext(>)only.
| show tech | copp |     |     |     |
| --------- | ---- | --- | --- | --- |
| show tech | copp |     |     |     |
Description
DisplaystheoutputofallshowcommandssupportedbyCoPP.
Examples
Capturingthecommandoutputintoalocalfile:
| switch# | show | tech | copp local-file |     |
| ------- | ---- | ---- | --------------- | --- |
Show Tech output stored in local-file. Please use 'copy show-tech local-file' to
| copy-out | this | file. |     |     |
| -------- | ---- | ----- | --- | --- |
switch#
|            | copy | show-tech | local-file | ?   |
| ---------- | ---- | --------- | ---------- | --- |
| REMOTE_URL |      | URL       | of syntax  |     |
{tftp://|sftp://USER@}{IP|HOST}[:PORT][;blocksize=VAL]/FILE
| STORAGE_URL    |             | URL       | of syntax  | usb:/file    |
| -------------- | ----------- | --------- | ---------- | ------------ |
| switch#        | copy        | show-tech | local-file |              |
| Command        | History     |           |            |              |
| Release        |             |           |            | Modification |
| 10.07orearlier |             |           |            | --           |
| Command        | Information |           |            |              |
| Platforms      |             | Command   | context    | Authority    |
Allplatforms Manager(#) Administratorsorlocalusergroupmemberswithexecutionrights
forthiscommand.
ControlPlanePolicing(CoPP)|22

Support and Other Resources

Chapter 3

Support and Other Resources

Accessing Aruba Support

Aruba Support Services

https://www.arubanetworks.com/support-services/

AOS-CX Switch Software Documentation
Portal

https://www.arubanetworks.com/techdocs/AOS-CX/help_
portal/Content/home.htm

Aruba Support Portal

https://asp.arubanetworks.com/

North America telephone

1-800-943-4526 (US & Canada Toll-Free Number)

+1-408-754-1200 (Primary - Toll Number)

+1-650-385-6582 (Backup - Toll Number - Use only when all other

numbers are not working)

International telephone

https://www.arubanetworks.com/support-services/contact-
support/

Be sure to collect the following information before contacting Support:

n Technical support registration number (if applicable)

n Product name, model or version, and serial number

n Operating system name and version

n Firmware version

n Error messages

n Product-specific reports and logs

n Add-on products or components

n Third-party products or components

Other useful sites

Other websites that can be used to find information:

https://community.arubanetworks.com/

https://www.arubanetworks.com/techdocs/AOS-CX/help_portal/Content/home.htm

Airheads social
forums and
Knowledge Base

AOS-CX Switch
Software
Documentation
Portal

AOS-CX 10.11 CoPP Guide | (8400 Switches)

23

Aruba Hardware
Documentation
and Translations
Portal

https://www.arubanetworks.com/techdocs/hardware/DocumentationPortal/Content/home.
htm

Aruba software

https://asp.arubanetworks.com/downloads

Software
licensing

End-of-Life
information

https://lms.arubanetworks.com/

https://www.arubanetworks.com/support-services/end-of-life/

Aruba Developer
Hub

https://developer.arubanetworks.com/

Accessing Updates
You can access updates from the Aruba Support Portal or the HPE My Networking Website.

Aruba Support Portal

https://asp.arubanetworks.com/downloads

If you are unable to find your product in the Aruba Support Portal, you may need to search My
Networking, where older networking products can be found:

My Networking

https://www.hpe.com/networking/support

To view and update your entitlements, and to link your contracts and warranties with your profile, go to
the Hewlett Packard Enterprise Support Center More Information on Access to Support Materials
page:

https://support.hpe.com/portal/site/hpsc/aae/home/

Access to some updates might require product entitlement when accessed through the Hewlett Packard
Enterprise Support Center. You must have an HP Passport set up with relevant entitlements.

Some software products provide a mechanism for accessing software updates through the product
interface. Review your product documentation to identify the recommended software update method.

To subscribe to eNewsletters and alerts:

https://asp.arubanetworks.com/notifications/subscriptions (requires an active Aruba Support Portal
(ASP) account to manage subscriptions). Security notices are viewable without an ASP account.

Warranty Information
To view warranty information for your product, go to https://www.arubanetworks.com/support-
services/product-warranties/.

Regulatory Information
To view the regulatory information for your product, view the Safety and Compliance Information for
Server, Storage, Power, Networking, and Rack Products, available at https://www.hpe.com/support/Safety-
Compliance-EnterpriseProducts

Support and Other Resources | 24

| Additional | regulatory | information |
| ---------- | ---------- | ----------- |
Arubaiscommittedtoprovidingourcustomerswithinformationaboutthechemicalsubstancesinour
productsasneededtocomplywithlegalrequirements,environmentaldata(companyprograms,
productrecycling,energyefficiency),andsafetyinformationandcompliancedata,(RoHSandWEEE).For
moreinformation,seehttps://www.arubanetworks.com/company/about-us/environmental-citizenship/.
| Documentation |     | Feedback |
| ------------- | --- | -------- |
Arubaiscommittedtoprovidingdocumentationthatmeetsyourneeds.Tohelpusimprovethe
documentation,sendanyerrors,suggestions,orcommentstoDocumentationFeedback(docsfeedback-
switching@hpe.com).Whensubmittingyourfeedback,includethedocumenttitle,partnumber,edition,
andpublicationdatelocatedonthefrontcoverofthedocument.Foronlinehelpcontent,includethe
productname,productversion,helpedition,andpublicationdatelocatedonthelegalnoticespage.
25
| AOS-CX10.11CoPPGuide| | (8400Switches) |     |
| --------------------- | -------------- | --- |