AOS-CX 10.09 Quality of
Service Guide

6200, 6300, 6400 Switch Series

Published: May 2022
Edition: 3

Copyright Information

© Copyright 2022 Hewlett Packard Enterprise Development LP.

Open Source Code

This product includes code licensed under the GNU General Public License, the GNU Lesser General Public
License, and/or certain other open source licenses. A complete machine-readable copy of the source code
corresponding to such code is available upon request. This offer is valid to anyone in receipt of this
information and shall expire three years following the date of the final distribution of this product version
by Hewlett Packard Enterprise Company. To obtain such source code, send a check or money order in the
amount of US $10.00 to:

Hewlett Packard Enterprise Company
6280 America Center Drive
San Jose, CA 95002
USA

Notices

The information contained herein is subject to change without notice. The only warranties for Hewlett
Packard Enterprise products and services are set forth in the express warranty statements accompanying
such products and services. Nothing herein should be construed as constituting an additional warranty.
Hewlett Packard Enterprise shall not be liable for technical or editorial errors or omissions contained herein.

Confidential computer software. Valid license from Hewlett Packard Enterprise required for possession, use,
or copying. Consistent with FAR 12.211 and 12.212, Commercial Computer Software, Computer Software
Documentation, and Technical Data for Commercial Items are licensed to the U.S. Government under
vendor's standard commercial license.

Links to third-party websites take you outside the Hewlett Packard Enterprise website. Hewlett Packard
Enterprise has no control over and is not responsible for information outside the Hewlett Packard
Enterprise website.

Acknowledgments

Intel®, Itanium®, Optane™, Pentium®, Xeon®, Intel Inside®, and the Intel Inside logo are trademarks of
Intel Corporation in the U.S. and other countries.

Microsoft® and Windows® are either registered trademarks or trademarks of Microsoft Corporation in the
United States and/or other countries.

Adobe® and Acrobat® are trademarks of Adobe Systems Incorporated.

Java® and Oracle® are registered trademarks of Oracle and/or its affiliates.

UNIX® is a registered trademark of The Open Group.

All third-party marks are property of their respective owners.

| 2

Contents
Contents
| Contents                                     |                         | 3   |
| -------------------------------------------- | ----------------------- | --- |
| About this                                   | document                | 5   |
| Applicableproducts                           |                         | 5   |
| Latestversionavailableonline                 |                         | 5   |
| Commandsyntaxnotationconventions             |                         | 5   |
| Abouttheexamples                             |                         | 6   |
| Identifyingswitchportsandinterfaces          |                         | 6   |
| Identifyingmodularswitchcomponents           |                         | 7   |
| QoS overview                                 |                         | 8   |
| End-to-endQoSbehavior                        |                         | 8   |
|                                              | Besteffortservice       | 8   |
|                                              | ClassofService          | 8   |
|                                              | Differentiatedservices  | 9   |
| QoSontheswitch                               |                         | 10  |
|                                              | QoStrust                | 12  |
|                                              | DynamicQoStrustmode     | 13  |
|                                              | Portratelimiting        | 13  |
|                                              | Queueprofiles           | 13  |
|                                              | Scheduleprofiles        | 15  |
|                                              | Egressqueueshaping      | 16  |
|                                              | Egressportshaping       | 16  |
|                                              | Virtualoutputqueues     | 16  |
|                                              | 6200and6300switchseries | 16  |
|                                              | 6400switchseries        | 17  |
|                                              | Terms                   | 17  |
| QoS configuration                            |                         | 19  |
| ConfiguringQoS                               |                         | 19  |
| ConfiguringexpeditedforwardingforVoIPtraffic |                         | 20  |
| Configuringratelimiting                      |                         | 22  |
| Configuringegressqueueshaping                |                         | 23  |
| Configuringegressportshaping                 |                         | 23  |
| SupportingEthernet802.1DClassofService       |                         | 24  |
| Monitoringqueueoperation                     |                         | 25  |
| QoS commands                                 |                         | 27  |
| applyqos                                     |                         | 27  |
| dwrrqueue                                    |                         | 29  |
| mapqueue                                     |                         | 30  |
| min-bandwidth                                |                         | 31  |
| namequeue                                    |                         | 32  |
| qoscos                                       |                         | 33  |
| qoscos-map                                   |                         | 34  |
| qosdscp                                      |                         | 35  |
| qosdscp-map                                  |                         | 37  |
| qosqueue-profile                             |                         | 38  |
3
AOS-CX10.09QualityofServiceGuide| (6200,6300,6400SwitchSeries)

| qosschedule-profile     |                    |           | 39  |
| ----------------------- | ------------------ | --------- | --- |
| qosshape                |                    |           | 40  |
| qostrust                |                    |           | 41  |
| rate-limit              |                    |           | 43  |
| showinterfacequeues     |                    |           | 45  |
| showinterfaceqos        |                    |           | 46  |
| showqoscos-map          |                    |           | 47  |
| showqosdscp-map         |                    |           | 48  |
| showqosqueue-profile    |                    |           | 49  |
| showqosschedule-profile |                    |           | 51  |
| showqostrust            |                    |           | 52  |
| strictqueue             |                    |           | 53  |
| Support                 | and Other          | Resources | 55  |
| AccessingArubaSupport   |                    |           | 55  |
| AccessingUpdates        |                    |           | 56  |
|                         | ArubaSupportPortal |           | 56  |
|                         | MyNetworking       |           | 56  |
| WarrantyInformation     |                    |           | 56  |
| RegulatoryInformation   |                    |           | 56  |
| DocumentationFeedback   |                    |           | 57  |
Contents|4

Chapter 1

About this document

About this document

This document describes features of the AOS-CX network operating system. It is intended for administrators
responsible for installing, configuring, and managing Aruba switches on a network.

Applicable products
This document applies to the following products:

n Aruba 6200 Switch Series (JL724A, JL725A, JL726A, JL727A, JL728A)

n Aruba 6300 Switch Series (JL658A, JL659A, JL660A, JL661A, JL662A, JL663A, JL664A, JL665A, JL666A,

JL667A, JL668A, JL762A)

n Aruba 6400 Switch Series (JL741A, R0X26A, R0X27A, R0X29A, R0X30A)

Latest version available online
Updates to this document can occur after initial publication. For the latest versions of product
documentation, see the links provided in Support and Other Resources.

Command syntax notation conventions

Convention

Usage

example-text

Identifies commands and their options and operands, code examples,
filenames, pathnames, and output displayed in a command window. Items that
appear like the example text in the previous column are to be entered exactly
as shown and are required unless enclosed in brackets ([ ]).

example-text

In code and screen examples, indicates text entered by a user.

Any of the following:
n <example-text>
n <example-text>
n example-text

n example-text

|

Identifies a placeholder—such as a parameter or a variable—that you must
substitute with an actual value in a command or in code:

n For output formats where italic text cannot be displayed, variables are
enclosed in angle brackets (< >). Substitute the text—including the
enclosing angle brackets—with an actual value.

n For output formats where italic text can be displayed, variables might

or might not be enclosed in angle brackets. Substitute the text
including the enclosing angle brackets, if any, with an actual value.

Vertical bar. A logical OR that separates multiple items from which you can
choose only one.
Any spaces that are on either side of the vertical bar are included for
readability and are not a required part of the command syntax.

AOS-CX 10.09 Quality of Service Guide | (6200, 6300, 6400 Switch Series)

5

Convention

Usage

{ }

[ ]

… or

...

Braces. Indicates that at least one of the enclosed items is required.

Brackets. Indicates that the enclosed item or items are optional.

Ellipsis:

n In code and screen examples, a vertical or horizontal ellipsis indicates an

omission of information.

n In syntax using brackets and braces, an ellipsis indicates items that can be

repeated. When an item followed by ellipses is enclosed in brackets, zero

or more items can be specified.

About the examples
Examples in this document are representative and might not match your particular switch or environment.

The slot and port numbers in this document are for illustration only and might be unavailable on your
switch.

Understanding the CLI prompts

When illustrating the prompts in the command line interface (CLI), this document uses the generic term
switch, instead of the host name of the switch. For example:
switch>

The CLI prompt indicates the current command context. For example:
switch>

Indicates the operator command context.

switch#

Indicates the manager command context.

switch(CONTEXT-NAME)#

Indicates the configuration context for a feature. For example:

switch(config-if)#

Identifies the interface context.

Variable information in CLI prompts

In certain configuration contexts, the prompt may include variable information. For example, when in the
VLAN configuration context, a VLAN number appears in the prompt:
switch(config-vlan-100)#

When referring to this context, this document uses the syntax:
switch(config-vlan-<VLAN-ID>)#

Where <VLAN-ID> is a variable representing the VLAN number.

Identifying switch ports and interfaces
Physical ports on the switch and their corresponding logical software interfaces are identified using the
format:
member/slot/port

On the 6200 Switch Series

About this document | 6

n member: Member number of the switch in a Virtual Switching Framework (VSF) stack. Range: 1 to 8. The

primary switch is always member 1. If the switch is not a member of a VSF stack, then member is 1.

n slot: Always 1. This is not a modular switch, so there are no slots.

n port: Physical number of a port on the switch.

For example, the logical interface 1/1/4 in software is associated with physical port 4 in slot 1 on member 1.

On the 6300 Switch Series

n member: Member number of the switch in a Virtual Switching Framework (VSF) stack. Range: 1 to 10. The

primary switch is always member 1. If the switch is not a member of a VSF stack, then member is 1.

n slot: Always 1. This is not a modular switch, so there are no slots.

n port: Physical number of a port on the switch.

For example, the logical interface 1/1/4 in software is associated with physical port 4 on member 1.

On the 6400 Switch Series

n member: Always 1. VSF is not supported on this switch.

n slot: Specifies physical location of a module in the switch chassis.

o Management modules are on the front of the switch in slots 1/1 and 1/2.

o Line modules are on the front of the switch starting in slot 1/3.

n port: Physical number of a port on a line module.

For example, the logical interface 1/3/4 in software is associated with physical port 4 in slot 3 on member 1.

Identifying modular switch components

n Power supplies are on the front of the switch behind the bezel above the management modules. Power

supplies are labeled in software in the format: member/power supply:

o member: 1.

o power supply: 1 to 4.

n Fans are on the rear of the switch and are labeled in software as: member/tray/fan:

o member: 1.

o tray: 1 to 4.

o fan: 1 to 4.

n Fabric modules are not labeled on the switch but are labeled in software in the format: member/module:

o member: 1.

o member: 1 or 2.

n The display module on the rear of the switch is not labeled with a member or slot number.

AOS-CX 10.09 Quality of Service Guide | (6200, 6300, 6400 Switch Series)

7

Chapter 2
QoS overview
QoS overview
QualityofService(QoS)enablesnetworkadministratorstocustomizehowdifferenttypesoftrafficare
servicedonanetwork,takingintoaccounttheuniquecharacteristicsofeachtraffictypeanditsimportance
withinanorganization'sinfrastructure.QoSensuresuniformandefficienttraffichandling,keepingthemost
importanttrafficmovingatanacceptablespeed,regardlessofcurrentbandwidthusage.Italsoprovides
methodsforadministratorstocontroltheprioritysettingsofinboundtrafficarrivingateachnetwork
device.
| End-to-end | QoS behavior |     |
| ---------- | ------------ | --- |
TheQoSsettingsoneachnetworkdevicemustbealignedtoachievethedesiredend-to-endQoSbehavior
foranetwork.Threeservicetypescanbeusedtocategorizeandprioritizenetworktraffic:
n BestEffortService
n EthernetClassofService(CoS)
InternetDifferentiatedServices(DiffServ)
n
Foranetworkasawhole,itisbesttoselectoneservicetypetouseastheprimaryend-to-endbehavior,and
thenusetheothertwoservicetypesasneeded.
| Best effort | service |     |
| ----------- | ------- | --- |
Thisisthesimplestservicetype.Alltrafficistreatedequallyinafirst-come,first-servedmanner.Ifthetraffic
loadislowinrelationtothecapacityofthenetworklinks,thenthereisnoneedfortheadministrative
complexityandcostsofmaintainingamorecomplexend-to-endpolicy.Thisissometimescalledover-
provisioning,asalllinkspeedsaremuchhigherthanpeakloadsonthenetwork.
| Class of | Service |     |
| -------- | ------- | --- |
ClassofService(CoS)isamethodforclassifyingnetworktrafficatlayer2bymarking802.1QVLANEthernet
frameswithoneofeightserviceclasses.
| CoS | Traffic type         | Example protocols |
| --- | -------------------- | ----------------- |
| 7   | NetworkControl       | STP,PVST          |
| 6   | InternetworkControl  | BGP,OSPF,PIM      |
| 5   | Voice(<10mslatency)  | VoIP(UDP)         |
| 4   | Video(<100mslatency) | RTP               |
| 3   | CriticalApplications | SQLRPC,SNMP       |
| 2   | ExcellentEffort      | NFS,SMB           |
8
AOS-CX10.09QualityofServiceGuide| (6200,6300,6400SwitchSeries)

| CoS | Traffic type |     |     |     | Example protocols |     |
| --- | ------------ | --- | --- | --- | ----------------- | --- |
| 0   | BestEffort   |     |     |     | HTTP,TELNET       |     |
| 1   | Background   |     |     |     | SMTP,IMAP         |     |
CoS1isdeliberatelysetasthelowestCoS.Thisenablesatrafficservicelevelbelowthedefault(besteffort)
trafficleveltobespecified.
The3-bitPriorityCodePoint(PCP)fieldwithinthe16-bitEthernetVLANtagisusedtomarktheCoS.
+--------+--------+--------+----------+-----------+--------
| | mac-da | | mac-sa | | 0x8100 | VLAN | tag | | ethertype | | data... |     |
| -------- | -------- | --------------- | ----- | --------- | --------- | --- |
+--------+--------+--------+----------+-----------+--------
|     |     | /   | \   |     |     |     |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
|     |     | /   |     | \   |     |     |
|     |     | /   |     | \   |     |     |
+-----+-----+---------+
|     |     | | pcp | dei | | vlan_id | |   |     |     |
| --- | --- | ----------- | --------- | --- | --- | --- |
+-----+-----+---------+
| Differentiated | services |     |     |     |     |     |
| -------------- | -------- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
Differentiatedservices(DiffServ)isamethodforclassifyingnetworktrafficatlayer3bymarkingpackets
withoneof64differentserviceclasses.ServicesclassesareidentifiedbytheDifferentiatedservicesCode
Point(DSCP)value.SomecommonDSCPvaluesare:
| DSCP     | Name           |     | Service                | class |     | RFC  |
| -------- | -------------- | --- | ---------------------- | ----- | --- | ---- |
| 48       | CS6            |     | NetworkControl         |       |     | 2474 |
| 46       | EF             |     | Telephony              |       |     | 3246 |
| 40       | CS5            |     | Signaling              |       |     | 2474 |
| 34,36,38 | AF41,AF42,AF43 |     | MultimediaConferencing |       |     | 2597 |
| 32       | CS4            |     | Real-TimeInteractive   |       |     | 2474 |
| 26,28,30 | AF31,AF32,AF33 |     | MultimediaStreaming    |       |     | 2597 |
| 24       | CS3            |     | BroadcastVideo         |       |     | 2474 |
| 18,20,22 | AF21,AF22,AF23 |     | Low-LatencyData        |       |     | 2597 |
| 16       | CS2            |     | OAM                    |       |     | 2474 |
| 00       | CS0,BE,DF      |     | BestEffort             |       |     | 2474 |
| 10,12,14 | AF11,AF12,AF13 |     | BulkData               |       |     | 2597 |
| 08       | CS1            |     | Low-PriorityData       |       |     | 3662 |
DSCPCS1(08)CoS1isdeliberatelysetasthelowestpriority.Thisenablesatrafficservicelevelbelowthe
standard(besteffortordefaultforwarding)leveltobespecified.
QoSoverview |9

The DSCP value is carried within the IPv4 DSCP field or the upper 6-bits of the 8-bit IPv6 Traffic Class (TC)
field.

IPv4
+----+-----+----+----+---+-------+----+------+-------+------+------+-------
|ver |dscp |ecn |len |id |offset |ttl |proto |chksum |ip-sa |ip-da | data..
+----+-----+----+----+---+-------+----+------+-------+------+------+-------

+------+-----+
| dscp | ecn |
+------+-----+

\

\

/

/

/

IPv6 \
+-----+-----+-----+-------+-------------+-----------+-------+-------+--------
| ver | tc | len | label | next_header | hop_limit | ip-sa | ip-da | data...
+-----+-----+-----+-------+-------------+-----------+-------+-------+--------

QoS on the switch
There are five key stages a packet passes through when traversing a switch: ingress, prioritization,
destination determination, egress queuing, and transmission. The following table provides an overview of
each stage, and lists the commands that can be used to configure QoS settings.

Switches with at least 52 ports will experience negative performance if a flood occurs where at least 42 ports are

members of the same VLAN and all 52 ports have QoS rules applied to them.

AOS-CX 10.09 Quality of Service Guide | (6200, 6300, 6400 Switch Series)

10

The following diagram shows how different packets might traverse a switch. It also shows how QoS
configuration settings apply at each stage.

QoS overview | 11

QoS trust

When trust mode is set to CoS or DSCP, the switch translates the QoS settings in VLAN tags (for CoS), or the
DS field in an IP header (for DSCP), to local priority values on the switch. Translation is controlled by the CoS
map or DSCP map tables.

For example:

AOS-CX 10.09 Quality of Service Guide | (6200, 6300, 6400 Switch Series)

12

Dynamic QoS trust mode

The device profile feature can dynamically set the QoS trust mode on an interface based on the LLDP
information exchanged with a link partner. The device profile's trust mode temporarily overrides the static
trust mode configured for an interface. The override remains in place as long as that link partner is
connected and its link state is up. Use command show interface IFNAME qos to view the current QoS trust
mode for an interface.

Port rate limiting

Port rate limiting helps control undesirable traffic. Its purpose is to allow enough broadcast, multicast, and
ICMP rate-limit traffic for the network to function properly, while preventing flooding and traffic storms.

A certain amount of each type of traffic is required for normal network operation. Broadcast packets may
include ARP and DHCP traffic, for instance. Video streams, and certain types of network protocol packets,
are multicasts. Configuring rate limits can help provide the balance between necessary and flooded traffic.

Queue profiles

A queue profile defines the queues that are associated with an interface to control the transmission of
packets. Each profile supports up to eight queues, numbered 0 to 7. The larger the queue number, the
higher its priority during transmission scheduling. Packets are assigned to a queue based on their local
priority value (0 to 7). A queue profile must map all eight local priority values to whatever queues are being

QoS overview | 13

usedontheswitch,andascheduleprofilemustspecifytheconfigurationforthosesamequeues.Aqueue
withoutalocalpriorityvalueassignedtoitisnotusedtostorepackets.
Theswitchisautomaticallyprovisionedwithaninitialqueueprofilenamedfactory-defaultwhichassigns
eachlocalprioritytothequeueofthesamenumber.Toseethedefaultqueueprofile,usethecommand
show qos queue-profile factory-default:
| switch#   | show qos queue-profile | factory-default           |
| --------- | ---------------------- | ------------------------- |
| queue_num | local_priorities       | name                      |
| --------- | ----------------       | ----                      |
| 0         | 0                      | Scavenger_and_backup_data |
| 1         | 1                      |                           |
| 2         | 2                      |                           |
| 3         | 3                      |                           |
| 4         | 4                      |                           |
| 5         | 5                      |                           |
| 6         | 6                      |                           |
| 7         | 7                      |                           |
Morethanonelocalpriorityvaluecanbeassignedtothesamequeue.Forexample,
Local
Queue
Priority
| 0   | 0   |     |
| --- | --- | --- |
| 1   | 1   |     |
| 2   | 2   |     |
| 3   | 3   |     |
| 4   | 4   |     |
| 5   | 5   |     |
| 6   | 5   |     |
| 7   | 5   |     |
Queuesmustbeconsecutivelydefinedstartingatqueuenumberzero.Forexample,afour-queueprofile
withpriorityvaluesdefinedforqueues0,1,2,3isvalid,butafour-queueprofilewhichdefinespriority
valuesforqueues1,3,5,and7isnot.
Table1:Validqueue
Local
Queue
Priority
| 0   | 0   |     |
| --- | --- | --- |
| 1   | 1   |     |
| 2   | 1   |     |
| 3   | 1   |     |
14
AOS-CX10.09QualityofServiceGuide| (6200,6300,6400SwitchSeries)

Local
Priority

Queue

4

5

6

7

2

2

3

3

Table 2: Invalid queue

Local
Priority

Queue

0

1

2

3

4

5

6

7

0

1

1

3

3

5

5

7

Commonly used commands for working with QoS queues are as follows:

n qos queue-profile: Creates an empty queue-profile and enters the profile configuration context.

n name queue: Assigns a descriptive name to a queue.

n map queue: Assigns a local-priority to a queue.

n apply qos queue-profile: Applies a queue-profile globally to all interfaces.

Schedule profiles

A schedule profile determines the order in which queues are selected for transmission, and the amount of
service available for each queue. A schedule profile must be configured on every interface at all times. A
schedule profile can be applied globally to all interfaces, or only to specific interfaces.

A weighted schedule profile assigns relative servicing for each queue. The amount of service per weight is
relative to the underlying hardware implementation, and to the weights assigned to the other non-empty
queues. Strict scheduling can be used to service queues purely on the basis of highest priority first (at the
risk of starving lower-priority queues during high stress periods). A combination of strict and weighted
scheduling offers more service to the highest priority queue when needed, while preserving scheduling
between the remaining queues, thus decreasing the risk of starvation.

The switch is automatically provisioned with a schedule profile named factory-default, which assigns
DWRR to all queues with a weight of 1. Use the command show schedule-profile factory-default to

QoS overview | 15

viewthedefaultscheduleprofile.(Donotuseshow running-configuration,asitonlydisplayschanges
fromtheinitialsettings.)The6400SwitchSeriesonlyhasfourqueues.
| switch#   | show  | qos       | schedule-profile | factory-default |
| --------- | ----- | --------- | ---------------- | --------------- |
| queue_num |       | algorithm | weight           |                 |
| --------- |       | --------- | ------           |                 |
| 0         |       | dwrr      | 1                |                 |
| 1         |       | dwrr      | 1                |                 |
| 2         |       | dwrr      | 1                |                 |
| 3         |       | dwrr      | 1                |                 |
| 4         |       | dwrr      | 1                |                 |
| 5         |       | dwrr      | 1                |                 |
| 6         |       | dwrr      | 1                |                 |
| 7         |       | dwrr      | 1                |                 |
| Egress    | queue | shaping   |                  |                 |
Egressqueueshapinglimitstheamountoftraffictransmittedperstrictoutputqueue.Thebufferassociated
witheachegressqueuestoresexcesstraffictoabsorbburstsandsmoothstheoutputrate.Forexample,an
administratormightlimitstrict-priorityqueuetraffictopreventlow-priorityqueuestarvationintheevent
thatadeviceinappropriatelysendstoomanyhigher-prioritypackets.
EgressqueueshapingcanbeconfiguredonanEthernetportoronalinkaggregationgroup(LAG).To
configureegressqueueshaping,defineascheduleprofilewiththestrictpriorityalgorithmassignedtoeach
queue.
| Egress | port | shaping |     |     |
| ------ | ---- | ------- | --- | --- |
Egressportshapinglimitstheamountofaggregatetraffictransmittedthroughaport.Tobeeffective,the
egressport-shapingratemustbelessthantheport'slinerate.Bydefault,theegressport-shapingrateisthe
sameastheline-rateoftheport.Buffersassociatedwitheachportstoreexcesstraffic.Whenbothegress
port-shapingandegressqueue-shapingareconfiguredonthesameinterface,theswitchrespectsthe
minimumofbothconfigurations.
| Virtual           | output | queues |        |     |
| ----------------- | ------ | ------ | ------ | --- |
| 6200and6300switch |        |        | series |     |
The6200and6300SwitchSeriescontain8MBofpacketbuffermemory.Approximately5MBareusedfor
bufferingtrafficarrivingonnetworkports.Eachportcanbufferatmost1MBofpacketsdividedequally
acrossalltheactivequeuesinaqueueprofile.Forexample,usingthedefaulteight-queueprofile,each
virtualoutputqueue(VOQ)canbufferamaximumof128KBofpackets.
Replicatedtraffic(L2broadcasts,L2multicasts,IPmulticasts,mirroredpackets,andunknown-unicasts)
requiresanextrastep.Thereareeightadditionalreplicationqueuesinitiallyusedforreplicatedtraffic.The
switchservicesthereplicationqueuesstrictlyattherateof100G.Forportsonthesameswitch,pointersto
thesamepacketareplacedintheVOQforeachdestinationport.ForportsonremoteVSFmember
switches,onlyonecopyofthepacketdataismovedacrosstheVSFlinktothedestinationreplicationVOQ
tooptimizelinkbandwidth.Fromthere,thedestinationswitchputspointerstothesamepacketontheVOQ
foreachdestinationport.
When3-8queuesareconfiguredonthe6300switchseriestheegressbufferlimitis2MB.Themostbuffera
singleportcanuseinagivenqueueis2MBandthat2MBissharedbetweentheportsinthequeuethat
needit.IfQoSisnotneededthenup1-2queuescanbeconfiguredwithanegressbufferlimitof4MB.
16
| AOS-CX10.09QualityofServiceGuide| |     |     | (6200,6300,6400SwitchSeries) |     |
| --------------------------------- | --- | --- | ---------------------------- | --- |

The 6300 switch series is the only platform where collapsing the number of queues increases the buffer

allocation limit.

6400 switch series

The 6400 Switch Series use a VOQ architecture where most packet buffering occurs on the ingress line
module. Only shallow buffers are used on the egress line module. This optimizes usage of fabric bandwidth.
Traffic destined for one port (unicast) uses different buffering and scheduling than traffic destined for
multiple ports (replication).

Each line module contains eight VOQs for every destination port in the chassis, and eight egress physical
queues (EPQs) for the ports local to the line module, regardless of the number of queues in the queue
profile. The 6400 Switch Series R0X38-R0X45 line modules contain 8 MB of packet buffer memory.
Approximately 5 MB is used for buffering traffic arriving on network ports. The remainder is used for
buffering traffic arriving across the fabric. On each line module, at most 1 MB of buffering is available for
every destination port in the chassis. This 1 MB buffer is equally divided across all the active queues in the
queue profile.

For example, using the default eight-queue profile, each VOQ can buffer at most 128 KB of packets. Packets
wait in VOQs on the arrival line module until the destination port scheduler selects them to be moved to one
of its EPQs. If the destination port is on another line module, the packet is moved across the fabric. If the
destination port EPQ is on the same line module, only a pointer to the packet is moved from the VOQ to the
EPQ.

The schedule profile determines the order the destination port scheduler uses for VOQ servicing. The
scheduler moves only enough packets to EPQs as are needed to keep the destination port transmitting at
the configured rate.

Replicated traffic (L2 broadcasts, L2 multicasts, IP multicasts, mirrored packets, and unknown-unicasts)
requires an extra step. There are eight additional internal replication VOQs per line module initially used for
replicated traffic. The line module services these replication VOQs strictly at a rate of 100 G. For ports on the
same line module, pointers to the same packet are placed in the VOQ for each destination port. For ports on
remote line modules, only one copy of the packet data is moved across the fabric to the destination
replication VOQ, to optimize fabric bandwidth. From there, the destination line module will put pointers to
the same packet on the VOQ for each destination port.

Terms

Class

For networking, a set of packets sharing a common characteristic. For example, all IPv4 packets.

Code point

The name of a packet header field, or the value carried within a packet header field:

n Example 1: Priority code point (PCP) is the name of a field in the IEEE 802.1Q VLAN tag.

n Example 2: Differentiated services code point (DSCP) is the name of a field carried within the DS field

of an IP packet header.

Color

A metadata label associated with each packet within the switch. It has two values: green (0) or yellow (1).
When packets encounter congestion for a resource (queue), the switch uses packet color to distinguish
which packets must be dropped, and is mostly used for packets marked with Assured Forwarding (AF)
DSCP values.

Not supported in this release.

QoS overview | 17

Class of service (CoS)

A 3-bit value used to mark packets with one of eight classes (levels of priority). It is carried within the
priority code point (PCP) field of the IEEE 802.1Q VLAN tag.

Differentiated services code point (DSCP)

A 6-bit value used to mark packets for different per-hop behavior as originally defined by IETF RFC 2474.
It is carried within the differentiated services (DS) field of the IPv4 or IPv6 header.

Local priority

A meta-data label associated with a packet within the switch which is used to classify packets for different
treatment (such as queue assignment). Eight local priorities are defined on the switch, numbered from 0
to 7. A queue profile must map all eight local priorities to whatever queues are in use on the switch, and a
schedule profile must specify the configuration for these same queues.

Metadata

Information labels associated with each packet in the switch, separate from the packet headers and data.
These labels are used by the switch in its handling of the packet. For example: arrival port, egress port,
VLAN membership, and local priority.

Priority code point (PCP)

The name of a 3-bit field in the IEEE 802.1Q VLAN tag. It carries the CoS value to mark a packet with one
of eight classes (priority levels).

Quality of service (QoS)

General term used when describing or measuring performance. For networking, it means how different
classes of packets are treated when traversing a network or device.

Traffic class (TC)

General term for a set of packets sharing a common characteristic. It used to be the name of an 8-bit
field in the IPv6 header originally defined by IETF RFC 2460. This field name was changed to
differentiated services by IETF RFC 2474.

Type of service (ToS)

General term when there are different levels of treatment (fare class). It used to be the name of an 8-bit
field in the IPv4 header originally defined by IETF RFC 791. This field name was changed to differentiated
services by IETF RFC 2474.

AOS-CX 10.09 Quality of Service Guide | (6200, 6300, 6400 Switch Series)

18

Chapter 3
QoS configuration
QoS configuration
| Configuring | QoS |     |     |
| ----------- | --- | --- | --- |
Procedure
1. Configurehowlocalpriorityvaluesareassignedtoingresspacketswiththecommandsqos dscp-map,
| andqos | trust. |     |     |
| ------ | ------ | --- | --- |
2. Optionally,addaratelimitforingresstrafficononeormoreinterfaceswiththecommandrate-
limit.
3. IfyoudonotwanttousethedefaultQoSqueueprofiletomaplocalprioritytoqueue,createoneor
morecustomqueueprofileswiththecommandqos queue-profile.Foreachqueueinacustom
queueprofile:
| a. Assignalocalpriorityvaluewiththecommandmap |     |     | queue. |
| --------------------------------------------- | --- | --- | ------ |
b. Optionally,defineadescriptivenamewiththecommandname queue.Alllocalpriorities(0to7)
mustbemappedtoaqueue,andthequeuesselectedforusemustbeincontiguousorder
startingat0.
4. IfyoudonotwanttousethedefaultQoSscheduleprofiletodeterminetheorderinwhichqueuesare
selectedtotransmitapacket,createoneormorecustomscheduleprofileswiththecommandqos
schedule-profile.Foreachqueueinacustomschedulequeueprofile,defineschedulingpriority
| withthecommandsstrict |     | queueanddwrr | queue. |
| --------------------- | --- | ------------ | ------ |
5. Optionallyforstrictqueues,configureegressqueueshapingtolimitegressbandwidthonaninterface
toavaluethatislessthanitslinerate.Usethemax-bandwidthparameterofthestrict queue
command.
6. ActivateQoSsettingswiththecommandapply qos.Thiscommandletsyouapplyaqueueprofile
andscheduleprofilegloballytoallinterfaces,orascheduleprofileoverridetoindividualinterfaces.
7. ViewQoSconfigurationsettingswiththeprovidedshowcommands.
Examples
Thisexamplecreatesthefollowingconfiguration:
| This example | creates the | following | configuration: |
| ------------ | ----------- | --------- | -------------- |
ConfiguresCoStobeusedtoassignlocalprioritytoingresspackets.
n
ModifiesthedefaultCoSmaptoassignCoS1tolocalpriority1.
n
n CreatesaqueueprofilenamedQ1andassignslocalprioritiesasfollows:
| Queue | LocalPriority |     |     |
| ----- | ------------- | --- | --- |
| 0     | 0             |     |     |
| 1     | 1             |     |     |
19
| AOS-CX10.09QualityofServiceGuide| | (6200,6300,6400SwitchSeries) |     |     |
| --------------------------------- | ---------------------------- | --- | --- |

| Queue | LocalPriority |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |
| ----- | ------------- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| 1     | 2             |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |
| 2     | 3             |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |
| 3     | 4             |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |
| 4     | 5             |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |
| 5     | 6             |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |
| 5     | 7             |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |
n CreatesascheduleprofilenamedS1andassignsDWRRtoallqueuesinthescheduleprofilewiththe
followingweights:
|     | Queue | Weight |     |     |     |     |     |     |
| --- | ----- | ------ | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
|     | 0     | 5      |     |     |     |     |     |     |
|     | 1     | 10     |     |     |     |     |     |     |
|     | 2     | 15     |     |     |     |     |     |     |
|     | 3     | 20     |     |     |     |     |     |     |
|     | 4     | 25     |     |     |     |     |     |     |
|     | 5     | 50     |     |     |     |     |     |     |
AppliesQ1andS1toallinterfacesthatdonothaveaQoSoverrideapplied.
n
|             | switch(config)#          | qos       | trust         | cos              |                  |        |                  |         |
| ----------- | ------------------------ | --------- | ------------- | ---------------- | ---------------- | ------ | ---------------- | ------- |
|             | switch(config)#          | qos       | cos-map       | 1 local-priority |                  |        | 1                |         |
|             | switch(config)#          | qos       | queue-profile |                  | Q1               |        |                  |         |
|             | switch(config-queue)#    |           | map           | queue            | 0 local-priority |        | 0                |         |
|             | switch(config-queue)#    |           | map           | queue            | 1 local-priority |        | 1                |         |
|             | switch(config-queue)#    |           | map           | queue            | 1 local-priority |        | 2                |         |
|             | switch(config-queue)#    |           | map           | queue            | 2 local-priority |        | 3                |         |
|             | switch(config-queue)#    |           | map           | queue            | 3 local-priority |        | 4                |         |
|             | switch(config-queue)#    |           | map           | queue            | 4 local-priority |        | 5                |         |
|             | switch(config-queue)#    |           | map           | queue            | 5 local-priority |        | 6                |         |
|             | switch(config-queue)#    |           | map           | queue            | 5 local-priority |        | 7                |         |
|             | switch(config-queue)#    |           | qos           | schedule-profile |                  |        | S1               |         |
|             | switch(config-schedule)# |           |               | dwrr queue       | 0                | weight | 5                |         |
|             | switch(config-schedule)# |           |               | dwrr queue       | 1                | weight | 10               |         |
|             | switch(config-schedule)# |           |               | dwrr queue       | 2                | weight | 15               |         |
|             | switch(config-schedule)# |           |               | dwrr queue       | 3                | weight | 20               |         |
|             | switch(config-schedule)# |           |               | dwrr queue       | 4                | weight | 25               |         |
|             | switch(config-schedule)# |           |               | dwrr queue       | 5                | weight | 50               |         |
|             | switch(config)#          | apply     | qos           | queue-profile    |                  | Q1     | schedule-profile | S1      |
| Configuring |                          | expedited |               | forwarding       |                  |        | for VoIP         | traffic |
QoSconfiguration |20

VoiceoverIP(VoIP)trafficisdelayandjittersensitive.ForoptimumtransmissionofVoIPtraffic,dwelltime
innetworkdevicesmustbekepttoaminimumandallnetworkdevicesinthedatapathmusthaveidentical
per-hopbehaviors.ToconfigureadedicatedqueueontheswitchtohandleVoIPtrafficwithpriorityservice
beforeallotherqueues,followthesesteps.
Prerequisites
ThisscenarioassumesthatVoIPpacketsareuniquelyidentifiedusingDiffServcodepoint46,Expedited
Forwarding(EF).
Procedure
1. MapDSCPEFpacketsexclusivelytolocalpriority5.ThedefaultDSCPmaphaseightcodepoints(40
through47),thataremappedtolocalpriority5.Toreserve localpriority5forVoIPtraffic,theother
codepointsmustbereassigned.Inthisscenario,localpriority6isusedforallreassignments,
includingforcodepoint40,CallSignalingprotocol(CS5).
| switch(config)# | qos | dscp-map | 40  | local-priority | 6 name CS5 |
| --------------- | --- | -------- | --- | -------------- | ---------- |
| switch(config)# | qos | dscp-map | 41  | local-priority | 6          |
| switch(config)# | qos | dscp-map | 42  | local-priority | 6          |
| switch(config)# | qos | dscp-map | 43  | local-priority | 6          |
| switch(config)# | qos | dscp-map | 44  | local-priority | 6          |
| switch(config)# | qos | dscp-map | 45  | local-priority | 6          |
| switch(config)# | qos | dscp-map | 47  | local-priority | 6          |
2. Queue7isthehighestpriorityqueue,soforbestthroughput,createaqueueprofilethatmapslocal
prioritytoqueue7.
| switch(config)#       | qos | queue-profile |       | ef_priority            |     |
| --------------------- | --- | ------------- | ----- | ---------------------- | --- |
| switch(config-queue)# |     | name          | queue | 7 Voice_Priority_Queue |     |
| switch(config-queue)# |     | map           | queue | 7 local-priority       | 5   |
| switch(config-queue)# |     | map           | queue | 6 local-priority       | 7   |
| switch(config-queue)# |     | map           | queue | 5 local-priority       | 6   |
| switch(config-queue)# |     | map           | queue | 4 local-priority       | 4   |
| switch(config-queue)# |     | map           | queue | 3 local-priority       | 3   |
| switch(config-queue)# |     | map           | queue | 2 local-priority       | 2   |
| switch(config-queue)# |     | map           | queue | 1 local-priority       | 1   |
| switch(config-queue)# |     | map           | queue | 0 local-priority       | 0   |
3. Createascheduleprofilethatservicesqueue7usingstrictpriority(SP),andtheremainingqueues
withDWRR.ThisscenariogivesallDWRRqueuesequalweight.
| switch(config)#          | qos | schedule-profile |       | voip     |     |
| ------------------------ | --- | ---------------- | ----- | -------- | --- |
| switch(config-schedule)# |     | strict           |       | queue 7  |     |
| switch(config-schedule)# |     | dwrr             | queue | 6 weight | 1   |
| switch(config-schedule)# |     | dwrr             | queue | 5 weight | 1   |
| switch(config-schedule)# |     | dwrr             | queue | 4 weight | 1   |
| switch(config-schedule)# |     | dwrr             | queue | 3 weight | 1   |
| switch(config-schedule)# |     | dwrr             | queue | 2 weight | 1   |
| switch(config-schedule)# |     | dwrr             | queue | 1 weight | 1   |
| switch(config-schedule)# |     | dwrr             | queue | 0 weight | 1   |
| switch(config-schedule)# |     | exit             |       |          |     |
switch(config)#
21
AOS-CX10.09QualityofServiceGuide| (6200,6300,6400SwitchSeries)

4. Apply the profiles to all interfaces.

switch(config)# apply qos queue-profile ef_priority schedule-profile voip

5. Configure DSCP trust mode on all ports

switch(config)# qos trust dscp

Configuring rate limiting
This scenario illustrates how to use rate limiting to manage the traffic from various devices connected to a
switch. The physical topology of the network looks like this:

A certain amount of broadcast traffic is necessary to maintain healthy network operation, particularly from
routers and across service boundaries. In this scenario, both the service cloud and the router connections
limit this traffic to 1 Gbps. The server has a smaller limit, as it does not require as much network protocol
traffic as the service cloud and router.

A multicast server needs to be able to stream multicast traffic to clients, so a multicast rate limit may not be
helpful. A computer, however, should not be generating large amounts of multicast traffic (it may be
receiving streams, but typically not sending them). In this example, the computer is configured with a
multicast rate limit to prevent malicious traffic from taking up network bandwidth.

Finally, while the service cloud and router may need to send traffic for unknown unicast addresses to
resolve address forwarding, the server and computer should send very little of this type of traffic. Rate
limiting unknown unicast traffic on those two devices enforces that.

On the 6400 Switch Series, interface identification differs.

Procedure

1. Configure broadcast and multicast rate limiting for the service cloud connection.

switch# config
switch(config)# interface 1/1/1
switch(config-if)# rate-limit broadcast 500 pps
switch(config-if)# rate-limit multicast 500 pps
switch(config-if)# exit

QoS configuration | 22

2. Configurebroadcastratelimitingfortherouterconnection.
|     | switch(config-if)# |     | interface  | 1/1/2     |         |     |
| --- | ------------------ | --- | ---------- | --------- | ------- | --- |
|     | switch(config-if)# |     | rate-limit | broadcast | 500 pps |     |
|     | switch(config-if)# |     | exit       |           |         |     |
3. Configurebroadcastratelimitingfortheserverconnection.
|     | switch(config-if)# |     | interface  | 1/1/5     |         |     |
| --- | ------------------ | --- | ---------- | --------- | ------- | --- |
|     | switch(config-if)# |     | rate-limit | broadcast | 100 pps |     |
switch(config-if)#
exit
4. Configurebroadcast,andmulticastratelimitingforthecomputerconnection.
|     | switch(config-if)# |     | interface | 1/1/10 |     |     |
| --- | ------------------ | --- | --------- | ------ | --- | --- |
switch(config-if)#
|             |                    |        | rate-limit | broadcast | 50 pps |     |
| ----------- | ------------------ | ------ | ---------- | --------- | ------ | --- |
|             | switch(config-if)# |        | rate-limit | multicast | 50 pps |     |
| Configuring |                    | egress | queue      | shaping   |        |     |
Thisexampleshowshowtoapplyegressqueueshapingtoaninterface.First,ascheduleprofileiscreated
thathasper-queuebandwidthlimitssetonallqueueswithstrictastheschedulingalgorithm.Next,this
profileisappliedtoaninterfaceorLAG.
Onthe6400SwitchSeries,interfaceidentificationdiffers.
ThefollowingexamplecreatesascheduleprofilenamedEQSExample,whichservicesallsevenqueuesusing
strictpriority.Thisprofileconfiguresqueues1,4,and7withabandwidthlimitof10Gbps,20Gbps,and
30Gbpsrespectively.Theprofileisthenappliedtointerface1/1/1.
switch(config)#
|                          |     | qos schedule-profile |        | EQSExample            |     |          |
| ------------------------ | --- | -------------------- | ------ | --------------------- | --- | -------- |
| switch(config-schedule)# |     |                      | strict | queue 0               |     |          |
| switch(config-schedule)# |     |                      | strict | queue 1 max-bandwidth |     | 10000000 |
| switch(config-schedule)# |     |                      | strict | queue 2               |     |          |
| switch(config-schedule)# |     |                      | strict | queue 3               |     |          |
| switch(config-schedule)# |     |                      | strict | queue 4 max-bandwidth |     | 20000000 |
| switch(config-schedule)# |     |                      | strict | queue 5               |     |          |
| switch(config-schedule)# |     |                      | strict | queue 6               |     |          |
| switch(config-schedule)# |     |                      | strict | queue 7 max-bandwidth |     | 30000000 |
| switch(config-schedule)# |     |                      | exit   |                       |     |          |
switch(config)#
|                    |     | interface | 1/1/1                |         |            |     |
| ------------------ | --- | --------- | -------------------- | ------- | ---------- | --- |
| switch(config-if)# |     | apply     | qos schedule-profile |         | EQSExample |     |
| Configuring        |     | egress    | port                 | shaping |            |     |
Thisexampleshowshowtoapplyegressportshapingtoaninterfacetolimittherateofegresstraffic.
Egressportshapingisconfiguredbyspecifyingthedesiredbandwidthrateinkilobitspersecond(kbps).To
beeffective,theegressratemustbelessthanthelinerateoftheegressinterface.Iftheconfiguredegress
rateexceedstheinterface'slinerate,thenegressshapinghasnoeffect.
Theconfiguredegressrateonaspecificinterfacecanbefoundbyusingtheshow interfaceandshow
| interface | qoscommands. |     |     |     |     |     |
| --------- | ------------ | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
Onthe6400SwitchSeries,interfaceidentificationdiffers.
23
| AOS-CX10.09QualityofServiceGuide| |     | (6200,6300,6400SwitchSeries) |     |     |     |     |
| --------------------------------- | --- | ---------------------------- | --- | --- | --- | --- |

Thefollowingexampleconfiguresanegressrateof100Mbps.
| switch(config)# | interface          | 1/1/1 |     |       |        |     |
| --------------- | ------------------ | ----- | --- | ----- | ------ | --- |
|                 | switch(config-if)# |       | qos | shape | 100000 |     |
Inthenextexample,bothegressportshapingandegressqueueshapingareconfiguredonthesame
interface.
TheexamplecreatesascheduleprofilenamedEQSExamplewithstrictpriorityforallsevenqueues.Queue7
isconfiguredwithabandwidthlimitof300Mbps.Theprofileisthenappliedtointerface1/1/1withegress
portshapingof400Mbps.Asegressqueueshapingandegressportshapingarebothconfiguredonport
1/1/1,egressqueueshapingissubjecttothelowerportorqueueshaperate.Theeffectivebandwidthfor
thetrafficegressingonqueue7willbe300Mbps.
| switch(config)#          | qos schedule-profile |        |       | EQSExample |     |     |
| ------------------------ | -------------------- | ------ | ----- | ---------- | --- | --- |
| switch(config-schedule)# |                      | strict | queue | 0          |     |     |
| switch(config-schedule)# |                      | strict | queue | 1          |     |     |
| switch(config-schedule)# |                      | strict | queue | 2          |     |     |
switch(config-schedule)#
|                          |           | strict               | queue | 3               |            |         |
| ------------------------ | --------- | -------------------- | ----- | --------------- | ---------- | ------- |
| switch(config-schedule)# |           | strict               | queue | 4               |            |         |
| switch(config-schedule)# |           | strict               | queue | 5               |            |         |
| switch(config-schedule)# |           | strict               | queue | 6               |            |         |
| switch(config-schedule)# |           | strict               | queue | 7 max-bandwidth |            | 300000  |
| switch(config-schedule)# |           | exit                 |       |                 |            |         |
| switch(config)#          | interface | 1/1/1                |       |                 |            |         |
| switch(config-if)#       | apply     | qos schedule-profile |       |                 | EQSExample |         |
| switch(config-if)#       | qos       | shape 400000         |       |                 |            |         |
| Supporting               | Ethernet  | 802.1D               |       | Class           | of         | Service |
IEEE802.1QisthemostcurrentEthernetstandardforClassofService(CoS).Itsupersededanearlier
standard,802.1D,in2005.IEEE802.1Qslightlychangedtheorderingoftheclassesofservicefromits
predecessorIEEE802.1DforCoS2andCoS0:
CoS
CoS802.1D
802.1Q
| 7Network 7NetworkControl |     |     |     |     |     |     |
| ------------------------ | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
Control
| 6 6Voice(<10mslatency) |     |     |     |     |     |     |
| ---------------------- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
Internetwork
Control
| 5Voice 5Video(<100mslatency) |     |     |     |     |     |     |
| ---------------------------- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
(<10ms
latency)
| 4Video 4ControlledLoad |     |     |     |     |     |     |
| ---------------------- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
(<100ms
latency)
| 3Critical 3ExcellentEffort |     |     |     |     |     |     |
| -------------------------- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
Applications
QoSconfiguration |24

CoS
CoS802.1D
802.1Q
| 2Excellent | 0BestEffort |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |
| ---------- | ----------- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
Effort
| 0BestEffort | 2Spare      |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |
| ----------- | ----------- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| 1           | 1Background |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |
Background
In802.1D,bothCoS2andCoS1arebelowCoS0(BestEffort).
Whenaswitchisinstalledinanetworkofdevicesfollowing802.1DClassofService,theQoSCosmapmust
bere-configuredtofollowthe802.1DstandardbyswappingtheassignmentsofCoS0and2:
switch#
config
switch(config)# qos cos-map 0 local-priority 2 color green name Best_Effort
switch(config)# qos cos-map 2 local-priority 1 color green name Spare
| switch(config)# |      | exit           |         |           |                       |     |     |     |
| --------------- | ---- | -------------- | ------- | --------- | --------------------- | --- | --- | --- |
| switch#         | show | qos            | cos-map |           |                       |     |     |     |
| code_point      |      | local_priority |         | color     | name                  |     |     |     |
| ----------      |      | -------------- |         | -------   | ----                  |     |     |     |
| 0               |      | 2              |         | green     | Best_Effort           |     |     |     |
| 1               |      | 0              |         | green     | Background            |     |     |     |
| 2               |      | 1              |         | green     | Spare                 |     |     |     |
| 3               |      | 3              |         | green     | Critical_Applications |     |     |     |
| 4               |      | 4              |         | green     | Video                 |     |     |     |
| 5               |      | 5              |         | green     | Voice                 |     |     |     |
| 6               |      | 6              |         | green     | Internetwork_Control  |     |     |     |
| 7               |      | 7              |         | green     | Network_Control       |     |     |     |
| Monitoring      |      | queue          |         | operation |                       |     |     |     |
Usetheshowinterfacequeuescommandtodisplaythetraffictransmittedperqueue,andthenumberof
packetsdroppedduetothequeuebeingfull.(Tx Bytesisavailableonthe6200and6300SwitchSeries.)
Forexample:
switch#
|           | show         | interface |                   | 1/1/1 | queues      |       |          |     |
| --------- | ------------ | --------- | ----------------- | ----- | ----------- | ----- | -------- | --- |
| Interface | 1/1/1        | is        | (Administratively |       |             | down) |          |     |
| Admin     | state        | is down   |                   |       |             |       |          |     |
| State     | information: |           | admin_down        |       |             |       |          |     |
|           | Tx           | Packets   |                   |       | Tx          | Bytes | Tx Drops |     |
| Q0        |              | 100       |                   |       |             | 8000  |          | 0   |
| Q1        |              | 1234567   |                   |       | 12345678908 |       |          | 5   |
| Q2        |              |           | 0                 |       |             | 0     |          | 0   |
| Q3        |              |           | 0                 |       |             | 0     |          | 0   |
| Q4        |              |           | 0                 |       |             | 0     |          | 0   |
| Q5        |              |           | 0                 |       |             | 0     |          | 0   |
| Q6        |              |           | 0                 |       |             | 0     |          | 0   |
| Q7        |              |           | 0                 |       |             | 0     |          | 0   |
Tx Bytes:Totalbytestransmitted(availableonthe6200and6300SwitchSeries).Thebytecountmay
includepacketheadersandinternalmetadatathatareremovedbeforethepacketistransmitted.Packet
headersaddedwhenthepacketistransmittedmaynotbeincluded.
Tx Packets:Totalpacketstransmitted.
25
| AOS-CX10.09QualityofServiceGuide| |     |     | (6200,6300,6400SwitchSeries) |     |     |     |     |     |
| --------------------------------- | --- | --- | ---------------------------- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |

Tx Drops: The number of packets dropped by a queue before it was sent. When traffic cannot be
forwarded out an egress interface, it backs up at ingress. The more servicing assigned to a queue by a
schedule profile, the less likely traffic destined for that queue will back up and be dropped. Tx Drops shows
the sum of packets that were dropped across all line modules (due to insufficient capacity) by the ingress
Virtual Output Queues (VOQs) destined for the egress port. Applicable to the 6400 Switch Series: Because
the counts are read separately from each line module, the sum is not an instantaneous snapshot.

QoS configuration | 26

Chapter 4

QoS commands

QoS commands

apply qos
apply qos [queue-profile <QUEUE-NAME>] schedule-profile <SCHEDULE-NAME>
no apply qos schedule-profile <SCHEDULE-NAME>

Description

Applies a queue profile and schedule profile globally to all Ethernet and LAG interfaces on the switch, or
applies a schedule profile to a specific interface. When applied globally, the specified schedule profile is
configured only on Ethernet interfaces and LAGs that do not already have their own schedule profile.

The same profile can be applied both globally and locally to an interface. This guarantees that an interface
always uses the specified profile, even if the global profile is changed.

The no form of this command removes the specified schedule profile from an interface and the interface
uses the global schedule profile. This is the only way to remove a schedule profile override from the
interface.

Interfaces may shut down briefly during reconfiguration.

Parameter

Description

queue-profile <QUEUE-NAME>

schedule-profile <SCHEDULE-NAME>

Specifies the name of the queue profile to apply. Range: 1 to 64
alphanumeric characters, including period (.), underscore (_), and
hyphen (-). This parameter is not supported in the config-if
context.

Specifies the name of the schedule profile to apply. Range: 1 to 64
alphanumeric characters, including period (.), underscore (_), and
hyphen (-).

Usage

n The switch must always have a globally-applied queue and schedule profile. To stop using a given profile,

apply a different profile.

n For a queue profile to be complete and ready to be applied, all eight local priorities must be mapped to a

queue.

n For a schedule profile to be complete and ready to be applied, it must define all queues specified in the
queue profile. All queues must use the same algorithm, except for the highest numbered queue, which
can be strict.

n Both the queue profile and the schedule profile must specify the same number of queues.

n Schedule profiles can be modified while applied, but only in ways where a single command will not result
in the profile becoming invalid. For example, queue 7 can have the algorithm changed, and weighted
queues can have their weights changed.

AOS-CX 10.09 Quality of Service Guide | (6200, 6300, 6400 Switch Series)

27

Queuesmustbeconsecutivelydefinedstartingatqueuenumberzero.Forexample,afour-queueprofile
n
withpriorityvaluesdefinedforqueues0,1,2,3isvalid,butafour-queueprofilewhichdefinespriority
valuesforqueues1,3,5,and7isnot.
Ifthenumberofqueueswaschangedfromthepreviousqueueprofiletothenewone,anyEthernetorLAG
interfaceswithlocallyappliedscheduleprofileswillprogramthenewlyappliedglobalschedule-profile.The
showrunning-configinterfacecommandwilllisttheexistingapplyqosschedule-profilecommandwitha
commentdescribingtheactualprofileapplied:
| apply qos | schedule-profile | Old_Schedule |     |     |
| --------- | ---------------- | ------------ | --- | --- |
| !actual   | schedule-profile | New_Schedule |     |     |
Examples
Thefollowingcommandsillustrateavalidconfigurationwhereeverylocalpriorityvalueisassignedtoa
queueandallassignedqueuesaredefined:
| switch(config)# | qos cos-map          | 1 local-priority |     | 1   |
| --------------- | -------------------- | ---------------- | --- | --- |
| switch(config)# | qos queue-profile    |                  | Q1  |     |
| switch(config)# | map queue            | 0 local-priority |     | 0   |
| switch(config)# | map queue            | 1 local-priority |     | 1   |
| switch(config)# | map queue            | 2 local-priority |     | 2   |
| switch(config)# | map queue            | 3 local-priority |     | 3   |
| switch(config)# | map queue            | 4 local-priority |     | 4   |
| switch(config)# | map queue            | 5 local-priority |     | 5   |
| switch(config)# | map queue            | 6 local-priority |     | 6   |
| switch(config)# | map queue            | 7 local-priority |     | 7   |
| switch(config)# | qos schedule-profile |                  | S1  |     |
| switch(config)# | dwrr queue           | 0 weight         | 5   |     |
| switch(config)# | dwrr queue           | 1 weight         | 10  |     |
| switch(config)# | dwrr queue           | 2 weight         | 15  |     |
| switch(config)# | dwrr queue           | 3 weight         | 20  |     |
| switch(config)# | dwrr queue           | 4 weight         | 25  |     |
| switch(config)# | dwrr queue           | 5 weight         | 50  |     |
Thefollowingcommandsillustrateaninvalidconfigurationbecauselocalpriority2isnotassignedtoa
queue:
| switch(config)# | qos cos-map          | 1 local-priority |     | 1   |
| --------------- | -------------------- | ---------------- | --- | --- |
| switch(config)# | qos queue-profile    |                  | Q1  |     |
| switch(config)# | map queue            | 0 local-priority |     | 0   |
| switch(config)# | map queue            | 1 local-priority |     | 1   |
| switch(config)# | map queue            | 3 local-priority |     | 3   |
| switch(config)# | map queue            | 4 local-priority |     | 4   |
| switch(config)# | map queue            | 5 local-priority |     | 5   |
| switch(config)# | map queue            | 5 local-priority |     | 6   |
| switch(config)# | map queue            | 5 local-priority |     | 7   |
| switch(config)# | qos schedule-profile |                  | S1  |     |
| switch(config)# | dwrr queue           | 0 weight         | 5   |     |
| switch(config)# | dwrr queue           | 1 weight         | 10  |     |
| switch(config)# | dwrr queue           | 3 weight         | 15  |     |
| switch(config)# | dwrr queue           | 4 weight         | 25  |     |
| switch(config)# | dwrr queue           | 5 weight         | 50  |     |
ApplyingtheQoSprofileQ1andthescheduleprofileS1toallinterfacesthatdonothaveanapplied
interface-specificscheduleprofile:
QoScommands |28

| switch(config)# |     | apply | qos queue-profile |     | Q1 schedule-profile | S1  |
| --------------- | --- | ----- | ----------------- | --- | ------------------- | --- |
CommandHistory
| Release        |     |     |     | Modification |     |     |
| -------------- | --- | --- | --- | ------------ | --- | --- |
| 10.07orearlier |     |     |     | --           |     |     |
CommandInformation
| Platforms | Commandcontext |     |     | Authority |     |     |
| --------- | -------------- | --- | --- | --------- | --- | --- |
Allplatforms config Administratorsorlocalusergroupmemberswithexecutionrights
|     | config-if |     |     | forthiscommand. |     |     |
| --- | --------- | --- | --- | --------------- | --- | --- |
config-lag-if
| dwrr       | queue                |     |                 |     |     |     |
| ---------- | -------------------- | --- | --------------- | --- | --- | --- |
| dwrr queue | <QUEUE-NUMBER>       |     | weight <WEIGHT> |     |     |     |
| no dwrr    | queue <QUEUE-NUMBER> |     |                 |     |     |     |
Description
Assignsthedeficitweightedroundrobin(DWRR)algorithmanditsweighttoaqueueinascheduleprofile.
DWRRallocatesavailablebandwidthamongallnon-emptyqueuesinrelationtothequeueweights.
ThenoformofthiscommandremovestheDWRRalgorithmfromaqueueinascheduleprofile.
| Parameter      |          |     |     | Description                                 |     |     |
| -------------- | -------- | --- | --- | ------------------------------------------- | --- | --- |
| <QUEUE-NUMBER> |          |     |     | Specifiesthequeuenumber.Range:0to7.         |     |     |
| weight         | <WEIGHT> |     |     | Specifiestheschedulingweight.Range:1to1023. |     |     |
Examples
AssigningDWRRwithaweightof17toqueue2inthescheduleprofilemyschedule:
| switch(config)#          |     | qos | schedule-profile |     | myschedule |     |
| ------------------------ | --- | --- | ---------------- | --- | ---------- | --- |
| switch(config-schedule)# |     |     | dwrr queue       | 2   | weight 17  |     |
DeletingDWRRforqueue2fromthescheduleprofilemyschedule:
| switch(config)#          |     | qos | schedule-profile |       | myschedule |     |
| ------------------------ | --- | --- | ---------------- | ----- | ---------- | --- |
| switch(config-schedule)# |     |     | no dwrr          | queue | 2          |     |
CommandHistory
| Release        |     |     |     | Modification |     |     |
| -------------- | --- | --- | --- | ------------ | --- | --- |
| 10.07orearlier |     |     |     | --           |     |     |
29
| AOS-CX10.09QualityofServiceGuide| |     |     | (6200,6300,6400SwitchSeries) |     |     |     |
| --------------------------------- | --- | --- | ---------------------------- | --- | --- | --- |

CommandInformation
| Platforms | Commandcontext |     | Authority |
| --------- | -------------- | --- | --------- |
6200 config-schedule-<NAME> Administratorsorlocalusergroupmemberswithexecution
rightsforthiscommand.
6300
6400
| map       | queue                |                 |                    |
| --------- | -------------------- | --------------- | ------------------ |
| map queue | <QUEUE-NUMBER>       | local-priority  | <PRIORITY-NUMBER>  |
| no map    | queue <QUEUE-NUMBER> | [local-priority | <PRIORITY-NUMBER>] |
Description
Assignsalocalprioritytoaqueueinaqueueprofile.Bydefault,thelargerthequeuenumberthehigherits
priority.Aqueuewithoutalocalpriorityvalueassignedtoitisnotusedtostorepackets.Thesamequeue
canbeassignedmultiplelocalpriorities.
Thenoformofthiscommandremovesthespecifiedlocalpriorityfromaspecificqueue.Ifnolocalpriority
numberisspecified,thenalllocalprioritiesareremovedfromthequeue.
| Parameter |     |     | Description |
| --------- | --- | --- | ----------- |
<QUEUE-NUMBER>
Specifiesthequeuenumber.Range:0to7.
<PRIORITY-NUMBER> Specifiesthelocalpriority.Range:0to7,where0isthelowest
priorityand7isthehighest.
Usage
Thefollowingcommandsillustrateavalidconfiguration,whereeverylocalpriorityvalueisassignedtoa
queue:
| map | queue 0 local-priority | 0   |     |
| --- | ---------------------- | --- | --- |
| map | queue 1 local-priority | 1   |     |
| map | queue 1 local-priority | 2   |     |
| map | queue 3 local-priority | 3   |     |
| map | queue 4 local-priority | 4   |     |
| map | queue 5 local-priority | 5   |     |
| map | queue 5 local-priority | 6   |     |
| map | queue 5 local-priority | 7   |     |
Thefollowingcommandsillustrateaninvalidconfiguration,becauselocalpriority2isnotassignedtoa
queue:
| map | queue 0 local-priority | 0   |     |
| --- | ---------------------- | --- | --- |
| map | queue 1 local-priority | 1   |     |
| map | queue 2 local-priority | 3   |     |
| map | queue 3 local-priority | 4   |     |
| map | queue 4 local-priority | 5   |     |
| map | queue 5 local-priority | 6   |     |
| map | queue 5 local-priority | 7   |     |
Examples
QoScommands |30

Assigningpriority7toqueue7inprofilemyprofile:
| switch(config)#       | qos | queue-profile | myprofile        |     |
| --------------------- | --- | ------------- | ---------------- | --- |
| switch(config-queue)# |     | map queue     | 7 local-priority | 7   |
Removingpriority7fromqueue7inprofilemyprofile:
| switch(config)#       | qos | queue-profile | myprofile              |     |
| --------------------- | --- | ------------- | ---------------------- | --- |
| switch(config-queue)# |     | no map        | queue 7 local-priority | 7   |
CommandHistory
| Release        |     |     | Modification |     |
| -------------- | --- | --- | ------------ | --- |
| 10.07orearlier |     |     | --           |     |
CommandInformation
| Platforms | Commandcontext |     | Authority |     |
| --------- | -------------- | --- | --------- | --- |
Allplatforms config-queue Administratorsorlocalusergroupmemberswithexecutionrights
forthiscommand.
min-bandwidth
Themin-bandwidthcommandonlyappliestoAruba6300SeriesSwitches.
| min-bandwidth    | queue <QUEUE-NUMBER> |                | percent <VALUE> |     |
| ---------------- | -------------------- | -------------- | --------------- | --- |
| no min-bandwidth | queue                | <QUEUE-NUMBER> |                 |     |
Description
AssignstheGuaranteedMinimumBandwidth(GMB)algorithmandapercentageofbandwidthtoaqueue.
GMBallocatesavailablebandwidthamongallnon-emptyqueuesinrelationtotheirconfiguredminimum
bandwidth.Non-emptyqueuesareservicedfirstinstrictorderuptotheirminimumbandwidth.Ifthereis
anyremainingbandwidth,theschedulerwillstrictlyserviceanyremainingnon-emptyqueues.
ThenoformofthiscommandonlyclearsthealgorithmforaqueueifGMBhasbeenassigned.
| Parameter      |     |     | Description                         |     |
| -------------- | --- | --- | ----------------------------------- | --- |
| <QUEUE-NUMBER> |     |     | Specifiesthequeuenumber.Range:0to7. |     |
<VALUE>
SpecifiesbandwidthpercentageusedforGMBscheduling.Range:
0to100.
Examples
Assigningqueue0ofscheduleprofileS1theGMBschedulingalgorithmwithminimumbandwidthof5
percent:
31
| AOS-CX10.09QualityofServiceGuide| |     | (6200,6300,6400SwitchSeries) |     |     |
| --------------------------------- | --- | ---------------------------- | --- | --- |

| switch(config)# |     | qos | schedule-profile |     | S1  |     |
| --------------- | --- | --- | ---------------- | --- | --- | --- |
switch(config-schedule)#
|     |     |     | min-bandwidth |     | queue 0 percent | 5   |
| --- | --- | --- | ------------- | --- | --------------- | --- |
RemovingGMBfromqueue0:
| switch(config)#          |     | qos | schedule-profile |     | s1      |     |
| ------------------------ | --- | --- | ---------------- | --- | ------- | --- |
| switch(config-schedule)# |     |     | no min-bandwidth |     | queue 0 |     |
CommandHistory
| Release        |     |     |     | Modification |     |     |
| -------------- | --- | --- | --- | ------------ | --- | --- |
| 10.07orearlier |     |     |     | --           |     |     |
CommandInformation
| Platforms | Commandcontext |     |     |     | Authority |     |
| --------- | -------------- | --- | --- | --- | --------- | --- |
config-schedule-<NAME>
| 6200 |     |     |     |     | Administratorsorlocalusergroupmemberswithexecution |     |
| ---- | --- | --- | --- | --- | -------------------------------------------------- | --- |
| 6300 |     |     |     |     | rightsforthiscommand.                              |     |
6400
| name          | queue          |     |               |     |     |     |
| ------------- | -------------- | --- | ------------- | --- | --- | --- |
| name queue    | <QUEUE-NUMBER> |     | <DESCRIPTION> |     |     |     |
| no name queue | <QUEUE-NUMBER> |     |               |     |     |     |
Description
Assignsadescriptiontoaqueueinaqueueprofile.Thisisforidentificationpurposesandhasnoeffecton
configuration.
Thenoformofthiscommandremovesthedescriptionassociatedwithaqueue.
| Parameter |     |     |     | Description |     |     |
| --------- | --- | --- | --- | ----------- | --- | --- |
<QUEUE-NUMBER>
Specifiesthequeuenumber.Range:0to7.
<DESCRIPTION> Specifiesaqueuedescriptionforidentificationpurposes.Range:1
to64alphanumericcharacters,includingperiod(.),underscore(_),
andhyphen(-).
Examples
Assigningthedescriptionpriority-traffictoqueue7:
| switch(config)#       |     | qos | queue-profile | myprofile          |     |     |
| --------------------- | --- | --- | ------------- | ------------------ | --- | --- |
| switch(config-queue)# |     |     | name queue    | 7 priority-traffic |     |     |
Removingthedescriptionfromqueue7:
QoScommands |32

| switch(config)# |     | qos queue-profile |     | myprofile |
| --------------- | --- | ----------------- | --- | --------- |
switch(config-queue)#
|     |     |     | no name queue | 7   |
| --- | --- | --- | ------------- | --- |
CommandHistory
| Release        |     |     |     | Modification |
| -------------- | --- | --- | --- | ------------ |
| 10.07orearlier |     |     |     | --           |
CommandInformation
| Platforms | Commandcontext |     |     | Authority |
| --------- | -------------- | --- | --- | --------- |
Allplatforms config-queue Administratorsorlocalusergroupmemberswithexecutionrights
forthiscommand.
qos cos
| qos cos <CODE-POINT> |     |     |     |     |
| -------------------- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
no qos cos
Description
ConfiguresaCoSPCPremarkforanEthernetorLAGinterface.Packetsthatingressontheinterfaceare
remarkedategressusingtheconfiguredCoSPCPvalue.
TheremarkonlyoccurswhenQoStrustmodeontheinterfaceissettonone.
IfQoStrustmodeisnotsettonone,thentheremarkisignored,andthefollowingcommandswillshowthe
CoSremarkstatusasignored (incompatible Port Access Trust configuration)ornot applied'
| (incompatible | QoS | global/port | Trust | configuration): |
| ------------- | --- | ----------- | ----- | --------------- |
showrunning-configuration
n
n showinterface<PORT-NUM>
| n show interface |     | <PORT-NUM> | qos |     |
| ---------------- | --- | ---------- | --- | --- |
ThenoformofthiscommandremovesaCoSremarkonaninterface.
| Parameter |     |     |     | Description |
| --------- | --- | --- | --- | ----------- |
<CODE-POINT> Specifiesan802.1VLANpriorityCoSvalue.Range:0to7.
Examples
Onthe6400SwitchSeries,interfaceidentificationdiffers.
ConfiguringaCoSremarkof3oninterface1/1/1:
| switch(config)#    |     | interface | 1/1/1      |     |
| ------------------ | --- | --------- | ---------- | --- |
| switch(config-if)# |     | qos       | trust none |     |
| switch(config-if)# |     | qos       | cos 3      |     |
DeletingaCoSremarkof3oninterface1/1/1:
33
| AOS-CX10.09QualityofServiceGuide| |     | (6200,6300,6400SwitchSeries) |     |     |
| --------------------------------- | --- | ---------------------------- | --- | --- |

| switch(config)# | interface | 1/1/1 |
| --------------- | --------- | ----- |
switch(config-if)#
no qos cos
CommandHistory
Release Modification
10.07orearlier --
CommandInformation
| Platforms | Commandcontext | Authority |
| --------- | -------------- | --------- |
6200 config-if Administratorsorlocalusergroupmemberswithexecutionrights
forthiscommand.
6300
6400
qos cos-map
qos cos-map <CODE-POINT> local-priority <PRIORITY-NUMBER> [color <COLOR>] [name
<DESCRIPTION>]
| no qos cos-map | <CODE-POINT> |     |
| -------------- | ------------ | --- |
Description
Definesthelocalpriorityassignedtoincomingpacketsforaspecific802.1VLANprioritycodepoint(CoS)
value.TheCoSmapvaluesareusedtomarkincomingpacketswhenQoStrustmodeissettocos.Intrust
nonemode,CoSmapentry0isusedtosettheportdefaultlocalpriorityandcolor.
ToseethedefaultCoSmapsettings,usethefollowingcommand:
switch#
|            | show qos cos-map | default                     |
| ---------- | ---------------- | --------------------------- |
| code_point | local_priority   | color name                  |
| ---------- | --------------   | ------- ----                |
| 0          | 1                | green Best_Effort           |
| 1          | 0                | green Background            |
| 2          | 2                | green Excellent_Effort      |
| 3          | 3                | green Critical_Applications |
| 4          | 4                | green Video                 |
| 5          | 5                | green Voice                 |
| 6          | 6                | green Internetwork_Control  |
| 7          | 7                | green Network_Control       |
ThenoformofthiscommandrestorestheassignmentsforaCoSmapvaluetothedefaultsetting.
Parameter Description
<CODE-POINT> Specifiesan802.1VLANpriorityCoSvalue.Range:0to7.Default
0.
local-priority <PRIORITY-NUMBER> SpecifiesalocalpriorityvaluetoassociatewiththeCODE-POINT
value.Range:0to7.Default:0.
QoScommands |34

| Parameter     |     | Description           |     |
| ------------- | --- | --------------------- | --- |
| color <COLOR> |     | Reservedforfutureuse. |     |
name <DESCRIPTION> SpecifiesadescriptionfortheCoSsetting.Thenameisfor
identificationonly,andhasnoeffectonqueueconfiguration.
Range:1to64alphanumericcharacters,includingperiod(.),
underscore(_),andhyphen(-).
Usage
Examples
MappingCoSvalue1toalocalpriorityof2:
| switch(config)# | qos cos-map | 1 local-priority | 2   |
| --------------- | ----------- | ---------------- | --- |
MappingCoSvalue1tothedefaultlocalpriorityvalue:
| switch(config)# | no qos cos-map | 1   |     |
| --------------- | -------------- | --- | --- |
CommandHistory
| Release        |     | Modification |     |
| -------------- | --- | ------------ | --- |
| 10.07orearlier |     | --           |     |
CommandInformation
| Platforms | Commandcontext | Authority |     |
| --------- | -------------- | --------- | --- |
6200 config Administratorsorlocalusergroupmemberswithexecutionrights
| 6300 |     | forthiscommand. |     |
| ---- | --- | --------------- | --- |
6400
qos dscp
qos dscp <CODE-POINT>
no qos dscp
Description
Configuresadifferentiatedservicescodepoint(DSCP)remarkforanEthernetorLAGinterface.IPV4and
IPV6packetsthatingressontheinterfaceareremarkedategressusingtheconfiguredDSCPvalue.
TheremarkonlyoccurswhenQoStrustmodeontheinterfaceissettonone.IfaDSCPremarkisconfigured
andthentrustmodeissubsequentlysettocosordscp,thentheDSCPremarkisignored.
Thefollowingcommandswillshowtheremarkstatusasignored(incompatiblePortAccessTrust
configuration)ornotapplied(incompatibleQoSglobalorporttrustconfiguration):
35
| AOS-CX10.09QualityofServiceGuide| | (6200,6300,6400SwitchSeries) |     |     |
| --------------------------------- | ---------------------------- | --- | --- |

n show running-configuration
| n show interface | <INTERFACE-NAME> |     |     |     |
| ---------------- | ---------------- | --- | --- | --- |
| n show interface | <INTERFACE-NAME> |     |     | qos |
ThenoformofthiscommandremovesaCoSremarkonaninterface.
| Parameter |     |     |     | Description |
| --------- | --- | --- | --- | ----------- |
<CODE-POINT>
SpecifiesanIPdifferentiatedservicescodepointvalue.Range:0
to63.
Usage
OrderofoperationforarrivingIPv4orIPv6packets:
1. Trustnoneisappliedwithinitiallocal-priorityandcolormetadataassignedfromtheCoSMapentry
index0.
2. Thelocal-priorityvalueandthequeueprofilearethenusedtodeterminethequeueforthepacket.
3. Theremarkofthepacket'sDSCPmetadatafieldisperformed.Whenthepacketistransmitted,its
IPv4orIPv6DSheaderisremarkedwiththeDSCPmetadata.
Forarrivingnon-IPpackets:
Trustnoneisappliedwithinitiallocal-priorityandcolormetadataassignedfromtheCoSMapentryindex0.
Thisselectsthequeueforpacketscheduling.ThePCPofanytaggednon-IPpacketsisunchanged.
Examples
Onthe6400SwitchSeries,interfaceidentificationdiffers.
ConfiguringaDSCPremarkof43oninterface1/1/1:
| switch(config)#    |     | interface | 1/1/1 |      |
| ------------------ | --- | --------- | ----- | ---- |
| switch(config-if)# |     | qos       | trust | none |
| switch(config-if)# |     | qos       | dscp  | 43   |
DeletingaDSCPremarkof43oninterface1/1/1:
| switch(config)#    |     | interface | 1/1/1 |     |
| ------------------ | --- | --------- | ----- | --- |
| switch(config-if)# |     | no dscp   | 43    |     |
CommandHistory
| Release        |     |     |     | Modification |
| -------------- | --- | --- | --- | ------------ |
| 10.07orearlier |     |     |     | --           |
CommandInformation
| Platforms | Commandcontext |     |     | Authority |
| --------- | -------------- | --- | --- | --------- |
6200 config-if Administratorsorlocalusergroupmemberswithexecutionrights
config-lag-if
| 6300 |     |     |     | forthiscommand. |
| ---- | --- | --- | --- | --------------- |
6400
QoScommands |36

qos dscp-map
qos dscp-map <CODE-POINT> local-priority <PRIORITY-NUMBER> [color <COLOR>] [cos <PCP-VALUE>]
[name <DESCRIPTION>]
| no qos dscp-map | <CODE-POINT> |     |     |
| --------------- | ------------ | --- | --- |
Description
DefinesthelocalpriorityassignedtoincomingpacketsforaspecificIPdifferentiatedservicescodepoint
(DSCP)value.TheDSCPmapvaluesareusedtoprioritizeincomingpacketswhenQoStrustmodeissetto
dscp.
Thenoformofthiscommandrestorestheassignmentsforacodepointtothedefaultsetting.
Useshow qos dscp-maptoviewthecurrentsettings.ToseethedefaultDSCPmapsettings,usethe
followingcommand:
| switch#    | show qos dscp-map | default     |      |
| ---------- | ----------------- | ----------- | ---- |
| code_point | local_priority    | cos color   | name |
| ---------- | --------------    | --- ------- | ---- |
| 0          | 1                 | green       | CS0  |
| 1          | 1                 | green       |      |
| 2          | 1                 | green       |      |
| 3          | 1                 | green       |      |
| 4          | 1                 | green       |      |
| 5          | 1                 | green       |      |
...
| 45  | 5   | green |     |
| --- | --- | ----- | --- |
| 46  | 5   | green | EF  |
| 47  | 5   | green |     |
| 48  | 6   | green | CS6 |
...
| 61        | 7   | green |             |
| --------- | --- | ----- | ----------- |
| 62        | 7   | green |             |
| 63        | 7   | green |             |
| Parameter |     |       | Description |
<CODE-POINT> SpecifiesanIPdifferentiatedservicescodepoint.Range:0to63.
Default:0.
local-priority <PRIORITY-NUMBER> SpecifiesalocalpriorityvaluetoassociatewiththeCODE-POINT
value.Range:0to7.Default:0.
| color <COLOR> |     |     | Reservedforfutureuse |
| ------------- | --- | --- | -------------------- |
cos <PCP-VALUE> Specifiesanoptional802.1pVLANPriorityCodePointremark
value.Range:0to7.Default:Noremark.
name <DESCRIPTION> SpecifiesadescriptionfortheDSCPsetting.Thenameisusedfor
identificationonly,andhasnoeffectonqueueconfiguration.
Range:1to64alphanumericcharacters,includingperiod(.),
underscore(_),andhyphen(-).
Examples
Settingcodepoint1toalocalpriorityof2andaCoSof0:
| switch(config)# | qos dscp-map | 1 local-priority | 2 cos 0 |
| --------------- | ------------ | ---------------- | ------- |
37
AOS-CX10.09QualityofServiceGuide| (6200,6300,6400SwitchSeries)

Settingcodepoint1tothedefaultvalue:
| switch(config)# | no qos dscp-map | 1   |
| --------------- | --------------- | --- |
CommandHistory
| Release        |     | Modification |
| -------------- | --- | ------------ |
| 10.07orearlier |     | --           |
CommandInformation
| Platforms | Commandcontext | Authority |
| --------- | -------------- | --------- |
config
Allplatforms Administratorsorlocalusergroupmemberswithexecutionrights
forthiscommand.
qos queue-profile
| qos queue-profile    | <NAME> |     |
| -------------------- | ------ | --- |
| no qos queue-profile | <NAME> |     |
Description
CreatesanewQoSqueueprofileandswitchestotheconfig-queuecontextfortheprofile.Or,ifthe
specifiedQoSqueueprofileexists,thiscommandswitchestotheconfig-queuecontextfortheprofile.A
queueprofilemapsqueuestolocal-priorityvalues. Eachprofilehasonetoeightqueuesnumbered0to7.
Thelargerthequeuenumber,thehigheritspriorityduringtransmissionscheduling.
Aqueueprofilenamedfactory-defaultisdefinedbydefaultandisautomaticallyappliedtoallinterfaces.It
cannotbeeditedordeleted.Usethecommandshow qos queue-profile factory-defaulttoviewthis
profile.Donotuseshow running-configuration,asitwillonlydisplaychangesfromtheinitialvalues.Use
show qos queue-profile [NAME]toviewthestatusofallqueueprofilesorthesettingsofthenamed
profile.
ThenoformofthiscommandremovesthespecifiedQoSqueueprofile.Onlyprofilesthatarenotcurrently
appliedcanberemoved.
| Parameter |     | Description                                    |
| --------- | --- | ---------------------------------------------- |
| <NAME>    |     | SpecifiesthenameoftheQoSqueueprofiletocreateor |
configure.Range:1to64alphanumericcharacters,including
period(.),underscore(_),andhyphen(-).
Examples
Creatingtheprofilemyprofile:
switch(config)#
|     | qos queue-profile | myprofile |
| --- | ----------------- | --------- |
switch(config-queue)#
Deletingtheprofilemyprofile:
QoScommands |38

| switch(config)# |     | no qos queue-profile | myprofile |
| --------------- | --- | -------------------- | --------- |
CommandHistory
| Release        |     |     | Modification |
| -------------- | --- | --- | ------------ |
| 10.07orearlier |     |     | --           |
CommandInformation
| Platforms | Commandcontext |     | Authority |
| --------- | -------------- | --- | --------- |
Allplatforms config Administratorsorlocalusergroupmemberswithexecutionrights
forthiscommand.
qos schedule-profile
| qos schedule-profile    |     | <NAME> |     |
| ----------------------- | --- | ------ | --- |
| no qos schedule-profile |     | <NAME> |     |
Description
CreatesaQoSscheduleprofileandswitchestotheconfig-schedulecontextfortheprofile.Ifthespecified
scheduleprofileexists,thiscommandswitchestotheconfig-schedulecontextfortheprofile.Theschedule
profiledeterminestheorderinwhichqueuesareselectedtotransmitapacket,andtheamountofservice
definedforeachqueue.
| Parameter |     |     | Description                                    |
| --------- | --- | --- | ---------------------------------------------- |
| <NAME>    |     |     | SpecifiesthenameoftheQoSqueueprofiletocreateor |
configure.Range:1to64alphanumericcharacters,including
period(.),underscore(_),andhyphen(-).
Usage
Queuesinascheduleprofilearenumberedconsecutivelystartingfromzero.Queuezeroisthelowest
priorityqueue.Thelargerthequeuenumber,thehigherprioritythequeuehasinschedulingalgorithms.
Aprofilenamedfactory-defaultisdefinedbydefaultandappliedtoallinterfaces.Itcannotbeeditedor
deleted.Toseeitssettings,usethecommand:
| switch#   | show      | qos schedule-profile | factory-default |
| --------- | --------- | -------------------- | --------------- |
| queue_num | algorithm | weight               |                 |
| --------- | --------- | ------               |                 |
| 0         | dwrr      | 1                    |                 |
| 1         | dwrr      | 1                    |                 |
| 2         | dwrr      | 1                    |                 |
| 3         | dwrr      | 1                    |                 |
| 4         | dwrr      | 1                    |                 |
| 5         | dwrr      | 1                    |                 |
| 6         | dwrr      | 1                    |                 |
| 7         | dwrr      | 1                    |                 |
39
| AOS-CX10.09QualityofServiceGuide| |     | (6200,6300,6400SwitchSeries) |     |
| --------------------------------- | --- | ---------------------------- | --- |

A profile named strict is predefined and cannot be edited or deleted. The strict profile services all queues of
the queue profile to which it is applied, using the strict priority algorithm.

A schedule profile must be defined on all interfaces at all times.

There are two permitted configurations for a schedule profile:

1. All queues use the same scheduling algorithm (for example, DWRR).
2. The highest queue number uses strict priority, and all remaining (lower) queues use the same

algorithm (for example, DWRR). This supports priority scheduling behavior necessary for the IETF
RFC 3246 Expedited Forwarding specification (https://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc3246).

Only limited changes can be made to an applied schedule profile:

n The weight of a dwrr queue.

n The bandwidth of a strict queue.

n The algorithm of the highest numbered queue can be swapped between dwrr and strict, and vice versa.

Applicable to REST: Any other changes will result in an unusable schedule profile, and the switch will revert to
the factory-default profile until the profile is corrected.

The no form of this command removes the specified QoS schedule profile when it is not applied. Only
profiles that are not currently applied to an interface can be removed.

Examples

Creating the schedule profile myschedule:

switch(config)# qos schedule-profile myschedule
switch(config-schedule)#

Deleting the schedule profile myschedule:

switch(config)# no qos schedule-profile myschedule

Command History

Release

10.07 or earlier

Command Information

Modification

--

Platforms

Command context

Authority

All platforms

config

Administrators or local user group members with execution rights
for this command.

qos shape
qos shape <RATE>
no qos shape

Description

QoS commands | 40

Limitstheegressbandwidthonaninterfacetoavaluethatislowerthanitslinerate.
Thenoformofthiscommandremovesshapingfromaninterface.
| Parameter |     |     |     | Description                                    |
| --------- | --- | --- | --- | ---------------------------------------------- |
| <RATE>    |     |     |     | Specifiesthemaximumtrafficrateinkbps.Range64to |
100000000.
Usage
Whenthetrafficratedestinedfortheportexceedstheconfiguredegressbandwidth,theswitchwillbuffer
theexcessuptothelimitofthequeues.Rateslargerthantheinterfacelineratewillhavenoeffect.When
setonaLAG,eachmemberEthernetportindependentlyshapesitsegressbandwidthtothespecifiedrate.
Examples
Onthe6400SwitchSeries,interfaceidentificationdiffers.
Configuringanegressportshapingrateof400Mbpsoninterface1/1/1:
| switch(config)#    |     | interface | 1/1/1        |     |
| ------------------ | --- | --------- | ------------ | --- |
| switch(config-if)# |     | qos       | shape 400000 |     |
Deletingegressportshapingoninterface1/1/1:
| switch(config)#    |     | interface | 1/1/1 |     |
| ------------------ | --- | --------- | ----- | --- |
| switch(config-if)# |     | no qos    | shape |     |
CommandHistory
| Release        |     |     |     | Modification |
| -------------- | --- | --- | --- | ------------ |
| 10.07orearlier |     |     |     | --           |
CommandInformation
| Platforms | Commandcontext |     |     | Authority |
| --------- | -------------- | --- | --- | --------- |
6200 config-if Administratorsorlocalusergroupmemberswithexecutionrights
| 6300 |     |     |     | forthiscommand. |
| ---- | --- | --- | --- | --------------- |
6400
qos trust
| qos trust | {none | | cos | dscp} |     |     |
| --------- | ----- | ------------- | --- | --- |
no qos trust
Description
Intheconfigcontext:
Thiscommandsetsthetrustmodethatisgloballyappliedtoallinterfacesthatdonothaveatrustmode
n
configured.
41
| AOS-CX10.09QualityofServiceGuide| |     | (6200,6300,6400SwitchSeries) |     |     |
| --------------------------------- | --- | ---------------------------- | --- | --- |

n The no form of this command restores all interfaces that do not currently have a trust mode configured

to the default setting.

In the config-if context:

n This command sets the trust mode override for a specific interface.

n The no form of this command clears a trust mode override. The interface then uses the global setting.

This is the only way to remove a trust mode override.

Parameter

Description

none

cos

dscp

Example

Ignores all packet headers. Ingress packets are assigned the local
priority and color values configured for CoS map entry 0. Default.

For 802.1 VLAN tagged packets, use the priority code point field
from the outermost VLAN header as the index into the CoS map to
obtain the local priority and color values for the packet. If the
packet is untagged, use the local priority and color values
configured for CoS map entry 0.

For IP packets, use the DSCP field from the IP header as the index
into the DSCP Map. For non-IP packets with 802.1 VLAN tags, use
the priority code point field from the outermost VLAN header as
the index into the CoS map to obtain the local priority and color
values for the packet. For untagged, non-IP packets, use the local
priority and color values configured for CoS map entry 0.

Setting the global trust mode to dscp, which is applied to all interfaces that do not already have an
individual trust mode configured. An override is then applied to interface 2/2/2, and LAG 100, setting trust
mode to cos:

switch(config)# qos trust dscp
switch(config)# interface 2/2/2
switch(config-if)# qos trust cos
switch(config-if)# interface lag 100
switch(config-if)# qos trust cos

WARNING: QoS port remark configurations are not applied when the QoS trust mode is mode. This warning

message is seen if a port trust command other than trust none is attempted when there is already a remark

configuration on the port. To restore the old remark configuration, configure the port trust mode to none.

WARNING: QoS port remark configurations are not applied when the global QoS trust mode is mode. This warning

message is seen if a port no qos trust command is attempted when there is already a remark configuration on the

port and the global trust mode is not none. To re-apply the remark configuration, set the port trust mode to none.

Command History

QoS commands | 42

| Release        |     |     | Modification |     |
| -------------- | --- | --- | ------------ | --- |
| 10.07orearlier |     |     | --           |     |
CommandInformation
| Platforms | Commandcontext |     | Authority |     |
| --------- | -------------- | --- | --------- | --- |
Allplatforms config Administratorsorlocalusergroupmemberswithexecutionrights
|     | config-if |     | forthiscommand. |     |
| --- | --------- | --- | --------------- | --- |
config-lag-if
rate-limit
rate-limit {broadcast | multicast | unknown-unicast | icmp {ip-all | ipv4 | ipv6}} <RATE>
| {kbps | pps}  |            |             |         |     |
| ------------- | ---------- | ----------- | ------- | --- |
| no rate-limit | {broadcast | | multicast | | icmp} |     |
Description
SetstheamountoftrafficofaspecifictypethatcaningressonanEthernetinterface,oroneachportofa
LAGinterface.RatelimitsareenforcedseparatelyoneachindividualmemberofaLAG,notontheLAGasa
whole.
Thenoformofthiscommandremovesthetrafficlimitforthespecifiedtraffictype.
| Parameter |     |     |     | Description |
| --------- | --- | --- | --- | ----------- |
{broadcast | multicast | icmp {ip-all | ipv4 | ipv6}} Specifiesthetypeofingresstrafficto
whichtheratelimitapplies:broadcast,
multicast,orICMP.
Themulticastratelimitaffectsmulticast
andbroadcasttraffic.Thebroadcastrate
limitonlyaffectsbroadcasttraffic.When
bothtypesareappliedtothesame
interface,broadcastpacketsarelimitedto
thelowerofthetworatevalues.Layer2
BPDUpackets,likespanningtree,arealso
includedinthemulticastratelimit.
TheICMPratelimitcanbeconfiguredto
applytoIPv4,IPv6,orallIPtraffic.Onlyone
ICMPrate-limitcanbeconfiguredata
time.ApplyinganewICMPrate-limit
replacesanypreviousICMPrate-limit.
| <RATE> {kbps | | pps} |     |     | Specifiestheratelimit.Range:64to |
| ------------ | ------ | --- | --- | -------------------------------- |
100000000kbps(instepsof64kbps),or
64to209090910kbps(instepsof64pps).
Theactualratelimitvarieswithsteps
approximatelyequaltotheminimum
value.Verifytheactualratelimitusingthe
commandshowinterface<INTERFACE-
NAME>.
Examples
Onthe6400SwitchSeries,interfaceidentificationdiffers.
43
| AOS-CX10.09QualityofServiceGuide| |     | (6200,6300,6400SwitchSeries) |     |     |
| --------------------------------- | --- | ---------------------------- | --- | --- |

Limitingbroadcasttrafficto2000ppsoninterface1/1/3:
| switch(config)#    |     | interface |            | 1/1/3     |     |          |
| ------------------ | --- | --------- | ---------- | --------- | --- | -------- |
| switch(config-if)# |     |           | rate-limit | broadcast |     | 500 kbps |
LimitingallICMPIPv4trafficto10000kbpsoninterface1/1/3:
| switch(config)#    |     | interface |            | 1/1/3 |      |            |
| ------------------ | --- | --------- | ---------- | ----- | ---- | ---------- |
| switch(config-if)# |     |           | rate-limit | icmp  | ipv4 | 10000 kbps |
Viewingtheresultsofthepreviousconfigurationsettings:
| switch#   | show  | interface |     | 1/1/3 qos |     |     |
| --------- | ----- | --------- | --- | --------- | --- | --- |
| Interface | 1/1/3 | is        | up  |           |     |     |
| Admin     | state | is up     |     |           |     |     |
Description:
| Hardware: | Ethernet, |     | MAC | Address: | 08:97:34:b1:20:00 |     |
| --------- | --------- | --- | --- | -------- | ----------------- | --- |
MTU 1500
| Type 1000BT      |           |              |       |             |     |     |
| ---------------- | --------- | ------------ | ----- | ----------- | --- | --- |
| qos trust        | none      |              |       |             |     |     |
| rate-limit       | broadcast |              | 2000  | pps         |     |     |
| (2000            | actual)   |              |       |             |     |     |
| rate-limit       | icmp      | ip-all       |       | 10000 kbps  |     |     |
| (10000           | actual)   |              |       |             |     |     |
| Speed            | 1000 Mb/s |              |       |             |     |     |
| L3 Counters:     |           | Rx Disabled, |       | Tx Disabled |     |     |
| Auto-Negotiation |           |              | is on |             |     |     |
| Flow-control:    |           | off          |       |             |     |     |
Rx
|     | 0   | input | packets |     |     | 0 bytes   |
| --- | --- | ----- | ------- | --- | --- | --------- |
|     | 0   | input | error   |     |     | 0 dropped |
0 CRC/FCS
L3:
|     | 0   | packets, |     | 0 bytes |     |     |
| --- | --- | -------- | --- | ------- | --- | --- |
Tx
|     | 127 | output | packets |     |     | 16510 bytes |
| --- | --- | ------ | ------- | --- | --- | ----------- |
|     | 0   | input  | error   |     |     | 0 dropped   |
0 collision
L3:
|     | 0   | packets, |     | 0 bytes |     |     |
| --- | --- | -------- | --- | ------- | --- | --- |
CommandHistory
| Release        |     |     |     |     | Modification |     |
| -------------- | --- | --- | --- | --- | ------------ | --- |
| 10.07orearlier |     |     |     |     | --           |     |
CommandInformation
| Platforms | Commandcontext |     |     |     | Authority |     |
| --------- | -------------- | --- | --- | --- | --------- | --- |
6200 config-if Administratorsorlocalusergroupmemberswithexecutionrights
| 6300 |     |     |     |     | forthiscommand. |     |
| ---- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --------------- | --- |
6400
QoScommands |44

| show interface |                  | queues |        |     |     |
| -------------- | ---------------- | ------ | ------ | --- | --- |
| show interface | <INTERFACE-NAME> |        | queues |     |     |
Description
Displaysinterface-levelqueuestatistics.
| Parameter |     |     |     | Description |     |
| --------- | --- | --- | --- | ----------- | --- |
<INTERFACE-NAME> SpecifiesthenameofanEthernetportorLAGontheswitch.
Format:member/slot/portorlag number.
Usage
Statisticsinclude:
Tx Bytes:Totalbytestransmitted.Thebytecountmayincludepacketheadersandinternalmetadata
n
thatareremovedbeforethepacketistransmitted.Packetheadersaddedwhenthepacketistransmitted
maynotbeincluded.ThebytecountincludesanypacketssubsequentlydroppedbyanegressACL(6300
SeriesSwitchonly).
n Tx Packets:Totalpacketstransmitted.Thecountincludespacketssubsequentlydroppedbyanegress
ACL(6300SeriesSwitchonly).
n Tx Drops:Totalpacketsdroppedbyanegressqueueduetoinsufficientcapacity.
n Tx Drops:Forthe6300SeriesSwitchtotalpacketsdroppedbyanegressqueueduetoinsufficient
capacity. Forthe6400SeriesSwitchsumofpacketsthatweredroppedacrossalllinemodulesbyVirtual
OutputQueues(VOQs)destinedfortheegressportqueueduetoinsufficientcapacity.Asthecountsare
readseparatelyfromeachlinemodule,thesumisnotaninstantaneoussnapshot.
Examples
Onthe6400SwitchSeries,interfaceidentificationdiffers.
Showingqueuestatisticsforinterface1/1/5:
| switch#                               | show interface | 1/1/5    | queues     |     |          |
| ------------------------------------- | -------------- | -------- | ---------- | --- | -------- |
| Interface                             | 1/1/5          | is down  |            |     |          |
| Admin state                           | is up          |          |            |     |          |
|                                       |                | Tx Bytes | Tx Packets |     | Tx Drops |
| Q0                                    |                | 0        |            | 0   | 3        |
| Q1                                    |                | 15356    |            | 73  | 0        |
| Q2                                    |                | 0        |            | 0   | 0        |
| Q3                                    |                | 0        |            | 0   | 0        |
| Q4                                    |                | 0        |            | 0   | 0        |
| Q5                                    |                | 0        |            | 0   | 0        |
| Q6                                    |                | 0        |            | 0   | 0        |
| Q7                                    |                | 0        |            | 0   | 0        |
| Showingqueuestatisticsforinterfacelag |                |          | 1:         |     |          |
| switch#                               | show interface | lag      | 1 queues   |     |          |
| Aggregate-name                        | lag1           |          |            |     |          |
| Aggregated-interfaces                 |                | :        |            |     |          |
| 1/1/6 1/1/7                           |                |          |            |     |          |
| Speed 20000                           | Mb/s           |          |            |     |          |
|                                       |                | Tx Bytes | Tx Packets |     | Tx Drops |
45
| AOS-CX10.09QualityofServiceGuide| |     | (6200,6300,6400SwitchSeries) |     |     |     |
| --------------------------------- | --- | ---------------------------- | --- | --- | --- |

| Q0  |     |     | 0    |     |     | 0   | 0   |     |     |
| --- | --- | --- | ---- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| Q1  |     |     | 0    |     |     | 0   | 0   |     |     |
| Q2  |     |     | 0    |     |     | 0   | 0   |     |     |
| Q3  |     |     | 0    |     |     | 0   | 0   |     |     |
| Q4  |     |     | 0    |     |     | 0   | 0   |     |     |
| Q5  |     |     | 0    |     |     | 0   | 0   |     |     |
| Q6  |     |     | 0    |     |     | 0   | 0   |     |     |
| Q7  |     |     | 3450 |     |     | 25  | 0   |     |     |
CommandHistory
| Release        |     |     |     |     | Modification |     |     |     |     |
| -------------- | --- | --- | --- | --- | ------------ | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| 10.07orearlier |     |     |     |     | --           |     |     |     |     |
CommandInformation
| Platforms | Commandcontext |     |     |     | Authority |     |     |     |     |
| --------- | -------------- | --- | --- | --- | --------- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
Allplatforms Operator(>)orManager OperatorsorAdministratorsorlocalusergroupmemberswith
|     | (#) |     |     |     | executionrightsforthiscommand.Operatorscanexecutethis |     |     |     |     |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | ----------------------------------------------------- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
commandfromtheoperatorcontext(>)only.
| show interface |                  |     | qos |     |     |     |     |     |     |
| -------------- | ---------------- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| show interface | <INTERFACE-NAME> |     |     | qos |     |     |     |     |     |
Description
ShowsvariousQoSsettingsforaspecificinterface.
| Parameter |     |     |     |     | Description |     |     |     |     |
| --------- | --- | --- | --- | --- | ----------- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
<INTERFACE-NAME> Specifiesthenameofaninterfaceontheswitch.Format:
|     |     |     |     |     | member/slot/portorlag |     | number. |     |     |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --------------------- | --- | ------- | --- | --- |
Examples
Onthe6400SwitchSeries,interfaceidentificationdiffers.
ShowingQoSsettingsforinterface1/1/5:
| switch#              | show interface |                 | 1/1/5           | qos  |          |           |       |         |            |
| -------------------- | -------------- | --------------- | --------------- | ---- | -------- | --------- | ----- | ------- | ---------- |
| Interface            | 1/1/5          | is up           |                 |      |          |           |       |         |            |
| Admin state          | is             | up              |                 |      |          |           |       |         |            |
| qos trust            | none           | (global)        |                 |      |          |           |       |         |            |
| qos queue-profile    |                | factory-default |                 |      | (global) |           |       |         |            |
| qos schedule-profile |                |                 | factory-default |      |          | (global)  |       |         |            |
| qos cos              | 5              |                 |                 |      |          |           |       |         |            |
| qos dscp             | 47             |                 |                 |      |          |           |       |         |            |
| rate-limit           | broadcast      |                 | 40000           | kbps | (40000   | actual)   |       |         |            |
| rate-limit           | icmp           | ip-all          | 10000           | kbps | (10000   | actual)   |       |         |            |
| Forwarded            | Pkts           |                 | Dropped         |      | Pkts     | Forwarded | Bytes | Dropped | Bytes      |
| Broadcast:           |                |                 |                 |      | 944468   |           | 1044  |         | 1044658890 |
85662408
QoScommands |46

| ICMP: |     |     | 82210 | 0   | 2689008 |
| ----- | --- | --- | ----- | --- | ------- |
0
| qos shape | 200000 (199999 | actual) |     |     |     |
| --------- | -------------- | ------- | --- | --- | --- |
CommandHistory
| Release        |     |     | Modification |     |     |
| -------------- | --- | --- | ------------ | --- | --- |
| 10.07orearlier |     |     | --           |     |     |
CommandInformation
| Platforms | Commandcontext |     | Authority |     |     |
| --------- | -------------- | --- | --------- | --- | --- |
Allplatforms Operator(>)orManager OperatorsorAdministratorsorlocalusergroupmemberswith
executionrightsforthiscommand.Operatorscanexecutethis
(#)
commandfromtheoperatorcontext(>)only.
| show qos         | cos-map   |            |     |     |     |
| ---------------- | --------- | ---------- | --- | --- | --- |
| show qos cos-map | [default] | [vsx-peer] |     |     |     |
NOTE:Thevsx-peerparameterisnotsupportedbythe6300SeriesSwitch
Description
ShowstheglobalQoSCoScodepointsettings,orthefactorydefaultsettings.
| Parameter |     |     | Description                                 |     |     |
| --------- | --- | --- | ------------------------------------------- | --- | --- |
| default   |     |     | ShowsthefactorydefaultCoScodepointsettings. |     |     |
vsx-peer ShowstheoutputfromtheVSXpeerswitch.Iftheswitchesdonot
havetheVSXconfigurationortheISLisdown,theoutputfromthe
VSXpeerswitchisnotdisplayed.Thisparameterisavailableon
switchesthatsupportVSX.
Examples
ShowingthecurrentCoSmap:
| switch#    | show qos cos-map |         |                  |     |     |
| ---------- | ---------------- | ------- | ---------------- | --- | --- |
| code_point | local_priority   | color   | name             |     |     |
| ---------- | --------------   | ------- | ----             |     |     |
| 0          | 2                | green   | Best_Effort      |     |     |
| 1          | 0                | green   | Background       |     |     |
| 2          | 1                | green   | Spare            |     |     |
| 3          | 3                | green   | Excellent_Effort |     |     |
| 4          | 4                | green   | Controlled_Load  |     |     |
| 5          | 5                | green   | Video            |     |     |
| 6          | 6                | green   | Voice            |     |     |
| 7          | 7                | green   | Network_Control  |     |     |
ShowingthedefaultCoSmap:
47
| AOS-CX10.09QualityofServiceGuide| |     | (6200,6300,6400SwitchSeries) |     |     |     |
| --------------------------------- | --- | ---------------------------- | --- | --- | --- |

| switch#            | show           | qos cos-map | default |                       |
| ------------------ | -------------- | ----------- | ------- | --------------------- |
| code_point         | local_priority |             | color   | name                  |
| ----------         | -------------- |             | ------- | ----                  |
| 0                  | 1              |             | green   | Best_Effort           |
| 1                  | 0              |             | green   | Background            |
| 2                  | 2              |             | green   | Excellent_Effort      |
| 3                  | 3              |             | green   | Critical_Applications |
| 4                  | 4              |             | green   | Video                 |
| 5                  | 5              |             | green   | Voice                 |
| 6                  | 6              |             | green   | Internetwork_Control  |
| 7                  | 7              |             | green   | Network_Control       |
| (Color is reserved |                | for future  | use.)   |                       |
CommandHistory
| Release        |     |     |     | Modification |
| -------------- | --- | --- | --- | ------------ |
| 10.07orearlier |     |     |     | --           |
CommandInformation
| Platforms | Commandcontext |     |     | Authority |
| --------- | -------------- | --- | --- | --------- |
6200 Operator(>)orManager OperatorsorAdministratorsorlocalusergroupmemberswith
6300 (#) executionrightsforthiscommand.Operatorscanexecutethis
| 6400              |          |           |            | commandfromtheoperatorcontext(>)only. |
| ----------------- | -------- | --------- | ---------- | ------------------------------------- |
| show qos          | dscp-map |           |            |                                       |
| show qos dscp-map |          | [default] | [vsx-peer] |                                       |
NOTE:Thevsx-peerparameterisnotsupportedbythe6300SeriesSwitch
Description
DisplaysthecurrentordefaultglobalQoSdscp-map.
| Parameter |     |     |     | Description                                  |
| --------- | --- | --- | --- | -------------------------------------------- |
| default   |     |     |     | ShowsthefactorydefaultDSCPcodepointsettings. |
vsx-peer
ShowstheoutputfromtheVSXpeerswitch.Iftheswitchesdonot
havetheVSXconfigurationortheISLisdown,theoutputfromthe
VSXpeerswitchisnotdisplayed.Thisparameterisavailableon
switchesthatsupportVSX.
Examples
ShowingthecurrentQoSDSCPmap:
| switch#    | show           | qos dscp-map |           |      |
| ---------- | -------------- | ------------ | --------- | ---- |
| code_point | local_priority |              | cos color | name |
QoScommands |48

| ---------- | -------------- | --- ------- | ---- |
| ---------- | -------------- | ----------- | ---- |
| 0          | 1              | green       | CS0  |
| 1          | 1              | green       |      |
| 2          | 1              | 3 green     |      |
| 3          | 1              | green       |      |
| 4          | 1              | green       |      |
| 5          | 1              | green       |      |
| 6          | 1              | green       |      |
| 7          | 1              | green       |      |
| 8          | 0              | green       | CS1  |
...
| 45  | 5   | green   |     |
| --- | --- | ------- | --- |
| 46  | 7   | green   | EF  |
| 47  | 5   | 7 green |     |
| 48  | 6   | green   | CS6 |
...
| 61  | 7   | green |     |
| --- | --- | ----- | --- |
| 62  | 7   | green |     |
| 63  | 7   | green |     |
ShowingthedefaultQoSDSCPmap:
switch#
|            | show qos dscp-map | default     |      |
| ---------- | ----------------- | ----------- | ---- |
| code_point | local_priority    | cos color   | name |
| ---------- | --------------    | --- ------- | ---- |
| 0          | 1                 | green       | CS0  |
| 1          | 1                 | green       |      |
| 2          | 1                 | green       |      |
| 3          | 1                 | green       |      |
| 4          | 1                 | green       |      |
| 5          | 1                 | green       |      |
...
| 45  | 5   | green |     |
| --- | --- | ----- | --- |
| 46  | 5   | green | EF  |
| 47  | 5   | green |     |
| 48  | 6   | green | CS6 |
...
| 61  | 7   | green |     |
| --- | --- | ----- | --- |
| 62  | 7   | green |     |
| 63  | 7   | green |     |
CommandHistory
| Release        |     |     | Modification |
| -------------- | --- | --- | ------------ |
| 10.07orearlier |     |     | --           |
CommandInformation
| Platforms | Commandcontext |     | Authority |
| --------- | -------------- | --- | --------- |
Allplatforms Operator(>)orManager OperatorsorAdministratorsorlocalusergroupmemberswith
|     | (#) |     | executionrightsforthiscommand.Operatorscanexecutethis |
| --- | --- | --- | ----------------------------------------------------- |
commandfromtheoperatorcontext(>)only.
| show qos | queue-profile |     |     |
| -------- | ------------- | --- | --- |
49
| AOS-CX10.09QualityofServiceGuide| | (6200,6300,6400SwitchSeries) |     |     |
| --------------------------------- | ---------------------------- | --- | --- |

| show qos queue-profile |     | [<NAME> | | factory-default] | [vsx-peer] |
| ---------------------- | --- | ------- | ------------------ | ---------- |
NOTE:Thevsx-peerparameterisnotsupportedbythe6300SeriesSwitch
Description
Showsthestatusofallqueueprofiles,oraspecificqueueprofile.
| Parameter |     |     | Description |     |
| --------- | --- | --- | ----------- | --- |
<NAME> Specifiesthenameofaqueueprofile.Range1to64alphanumeric
characters,includingperiod(.),underscore(_),andhyphen(-).
| [factory-default] |     |     | Specifiesthefactorydefaultqueueprofile. |     |
| ----------------- | --- | --- | --------------------------------------- | --- |
vsx-peer ShowstheoutputfromtheVSXpeerswitch.Iftheswitchesdonot
havetheVSXconfigurationortheISLisdown,theoutputfromthe
VSXpeerswitchisnotdisplayed.Thisparameterisavailableon
switchesthatsupportVSX.
Usage
Thestatusofaqueueprofilecanbe:
n Applied-Theprofileisactivelybeingusedbytheswitch.
n Complete-Theprofilemeetsthecriteriatobeapplied.
n Incomplete-Theprofiledoesnotmeetthecriteriatobeapplied.
Foraqueueprofiletobecompleteandreadytobeapplied:
n Alleightlocalprioritiesmustbemappedtosomequeue.
n Therecanbe1to8queues.
Thequeuesmustbeconsecutivelynumberedstartingatzero.
n
Examples
Showingthesettingsofthefactorydefaultqueueprofile:
| switch#   | show qos         | queue-profile | factory-default |     |
| --------- | ---------------- | ------------- | --------------- | --- |
| queue_num | local_priorities |               | name            |     |
| --------- | ---------------- |               | ----            |     |
| 0         | 0                |               |                 |     |
| 1         | 1                |               |                 |     |
| 2         | 2                |               |                 |     |
| 3         | 3                |               |                 |     |
| 4         | 4                |               |                 |     |
| 5         | 5                |               |                 |     |
| 6         | 6                |               |                 |     |
| 7         | 7                |               |                 |     |
CommandHistory
| Release        |     |     | Modification |     |
| -------------- | --- | --- | ------------ | --- |
| 10.07orearlier |     |     | --           |     |
QoScommands |50

CommandInformation
| Platforms | Commandcontext | Authority |
| --------- | -------------- | --------- |
Allplatforms Operator(>)orManager OperatorsorAdministratorsorlocalusergroupmemberswith
executionrightsforthiscommand.Operatorscanexecutethis
(#)
commandfromtheoperatorcontext(>)only.
| show qos | schedule-profile |     |
| -------- | ---------------- | --- |
show qos schedule-profile [<NAME> | factory-default | strict] [vsx-peer]
NOTE:Thevsx-peerparameterisnotsupportedbythe6300SeriesSwitch
Description
Showsthestatusofallscheduleprofiles,oraspecificscheduleprofile.
| Parameter |     | Description                                           |
| --------- | --- | ----------------------------------------------------- |
| <NAME>    |     | Specifiesthenameofaqueueorscheduleprofile.Range:1to64 |
alphanumericcharacters,includingperiod(.),underscore(_),and
hyphen(-).
| [factory-default] |     | Specifiesthefactorydefaultqueueprofile. |
| ----------------- | --- | --------------------------------------- |
vsx-peer ShowstheoutputfromtheVSXpeerswitch.Iftheswitchesdonot
havetheVSXconfigurationortheISLisdown,theoutputfromthe
VSXpeerswitchisnotdisplayed.Thisparameterisavailableon
switchesthatsupportVSX.
Usage
Thestatusofascheduleprofilecanbe:
n Applied-Theprofileisactivelybeingusedbyoneormoreports.
Complete-Theprofilemeetsthecriteriatobeapplied.
n
Incomplete-Theprofiledoesnotmeetthecriteriatobeapplied.
n
Forascheduleprofiletobecompleteandreadytobeapplieditmusthave:
Analgorithmforeachqueuedefinedbytheappliedqueueprofile.
n
Allqueuesmustusethesamealgorithmexceptforthehighestnumberedqueue,whichmaybestrict.
n
Example
Showingthestatusofallscheduleprofiles:
| switch#        | show qos schedule-profile |     |
| -------------- | ------------------------- | --- |
| profile_status | profile_name              |     |
| -------------- | ------------              |     |
| applied        | myschedule                |     |
| complete       | factory-default           |     |
| complete       | Test                      |     |
51
AOS-CX10.09QualityofServiceGuide| (6200,6300,6400SwitchSeries)

Showingtheconfigurationoffactorydefaultscheduleprofile:
| switch#   | show qos  | schedule-profile | factory-default |
| --------- | --------- | ---------------- | --------------- |
| queue_num | algorithm | weight           |                 |
| --------- | --------- | ------           |                 |
| 0         | dwrr      | 1                |                 |
| 1         | dwrr      | 1                |                 |
| 2         | dwrr      | 1                |                 |
| 3         | dwrr      | 1                |                 |
| 4         | dwrr      | 1                |                 |
| 5         | dwrr      | 1                |                 |
| 6         | dwrr      | 1                |                 |
| 7         | dwrr      | 1                |                 |
CommandHistory
| Release        |     |     | Modification |
| -------------- | --- | --- | ------------ |
| 10.07orearlier |     |     | --           |
CommandInformation
| Platforms | Commandcontext |     | Authority |
| --------- | -------------- | --- | --------- |
Allplatforms Operator(>)orManager OperatorsorAdministratorsorlocalusergroupmemberswith
|     | (#) |     | executionrightsforthiscommand.Operatorscanexecutethis |
| --- | --- | --- | ----------------------------------------------------- |
commandfromtheoperatorcontext(>)only.
| show qos       | trust     |            |     |
| -------------- | --------- | ---------- | --- |
| show qos trust | [default] | [vsx-peer] |     |
NOTE:Thevsx-peerparameterisnotsupportedbythe6300SeriesSwitch
Description
ShowstheglobalQoStrustsettings,orthefactorydefaultsettings.
| Parameter |     |     | Description |
| --------- | --- | --- | ----------- |
default
ShowsthefactorydefaultQoStrustsettings.
vsx-peer ShowstheoutputfromtheVSXpeerswitch.Iftheswitchesdonot
havetheVSXconfigurationortheISLisdown,theoutputfromthe
VSXpeerswitchisnotdisplayed.Thisparameterisavailableon
switchesthatsupportVSX.
Examples
ShowingthecurrentQoStrustsettings:
| switch#   | show qos | trust |     |
| --------- | -------- | ----- | --- |
| qos trust | cos      |       |     |
QoScommands |52

ShowingthedefaultQoStrustsettings:
| switch#   | show qos trust | default |     |
| --------- | -------------- | ------- | --- |
| qos trust | none           |         |     |
CommandHistory
| Release        |     |     | Modification |
| -------------- | --- | --- | ------------ |
| 10.07orearlier |     |     | --           |
CommandInformation
| Platforms | Commandcontext |     | Authority |
| --------- | -------------- | --- | --------- |
Allplatforms Operator(>)orManager OperatorsorAdministratorsorlocalusergroupmemberswith
executionrightsforthiscommand.Operatorscanexecutethis
(#)
commandfromtheoperatorcontext(>)only.
| strict queue |                      |                 |               |
| ------------ | -------------------- | --------------- | ------------- |
| strict queue | <QUEUE-NUMBER>       | [[max-bandwidth | <BANDWIDTH>]] |
| no strict    | queue <QUEUE-NUMBER> |                 |               |
Description
Assignsthestrictpriorityalgorithmtoaqueue.Strictpriorityservicesallpacketswaitinginaqueue,before
servicingthepacketsinlowerpriorityqueues.
Egressqueueshapingcanbeconfiguredusingthemax-bandwidthoptiontolimittheamountoftraffic
transmittedperoutputqueue.Thebufferassociatedwitheachegressqueuestorestheexcesstrafficto
smooththeoutputrate.Sustainedratesoftrafficabovethemaximumbandwidthwilleventuallyfillthe
outputqueuecausingtaildrops.Usethecommandshow interfacetodetermineifanytaildroperrors
haveoccurred.
Thenoformofthiscommandremovesthequeueconfigurationfromthescheduleprofile.Toremoveonly
egressqueueshaping,re-enterthestrictqueuecommandwithoutthemax-bandwidthparameter.
| Parameter      |     |     | Description                              |
| -------------- | --- | --- | ---------------------------------------- |
| <QUEUE-NUMBER> |     |     | Specifiesthenumberofthequeue.Range:0to7. |
max-bandwidth <BANDWIDTH> SpecifiesthemaximumbandwidthallowedonthequeueinKbps.
Range:64to100000000.
Usage
Eitherallthequeuesofthescheduleprofilecanbestrictorjustthehighestnumberedqueue.Whenapplied
toaLAG,eachmemberEthernetportindependentlyschedulesitsegresstransmissionsusingthestrict
settings.Onlylimitedchangescanbemadetoastrictqueuethatispartofanappliedscheduleprofile:
53
| AOS-CX10.09QualityofServiceGuide| |     | (6200,6300,6400SwitchSeries) |     |
| --------------------------------- | --- | ---------------------------- | --- |

Themax-bandwidthsettings.
n
Thehighestnumberedqueuecanbeswappedbetweenstrictanddwrr`ormin-bandwidth(only
n
applicablefortheAruba6300SeriesSwitch)
Thehighestnumberedqueuecanbeswappedbetweenstrictanddwrr(onlyapplicablefortheAruba
n
6400SeriesSwitch)
Anyotherchangesorremovingaqueue(no strict queue)willresultinanunusablescheduleprofile.If
thatscheduleprofileisappliedintheinterfacecontext,theswitchwillreverttothescheduleprofileapplied
intheglobalcontextuntiltheprofileiscorrected.Ifthatscheduleprofileisappliedintheglobalcontext,the
switchwillreverttousingthefactory-defaultprofileuntiltheprofileiscorrected.
Examples
Assigningstrictprioritytoqueue7inthescheduleprofilemyschedule:
| switch(config)#          | qos schedule-profile |        | myschedule |     |
| ------------------------ | -------------------- | ------ | ---------- | --- |
| switch(config-schedule)# |                      | strict | queue 7    |     |
Deletingstrictpriorityfromqueue7inthescheduleprofilemyschedule:
| switch(config)#          | qos schedule-profile |           | myschedule |     |
| ------------------------ | -------------------- | --------- | ---------- | --- |
| switch(config-schedule)# |                      | no strict | queue 7    |     |
Assigningstrictprioritytoqueue7inthescheduleprofilemyschedulewithamaximumbandwidthof
10000Kbps:
| switch(config)#          | qos schedule-profile |        | myschedule           |       |
| ------------------------ | -------------------- | ------ | -------------------- | ----- |
| switch(config-schedule)# |                      | strict | queue 7 max-bandwith | 10000 |
CommandHistory
| Release        |     |     | Modification |     |
| -------------- | --- | --- | ------------ | --- |
| 10.07orearlier |     |     | --           |     |
CommandInformation
| Platforms | Commandcontext |     | Authority |     |
| --------- | -------------- | --- | --------- | --- |
Allplatforms config-schedule-<NAME> Administratorsorlocalusergroupmemberswithexecution
rightsforthiscommand.
QoScommands |54

Support and Other Resources

Chapter 5

Support and Other Resources

Accessing Aruba Support

Aruba Support Services

https://www.arubanetworks.com/support-services/

Aruba Support Portal

https://asp.arubanetworks.com/

North America telephone

1-800-943-4526 (US & Canada Toll-Free Number)

+1-408-754-1200 (Primary - Toll Number)

+1-650-385-6582 (Backup - Toll Number - Use only when all other
numbers are not working)

International telephone

https://www.arubanetworks.com/support-services/contact-
support/

Be sure to collect the following information before contacting Support:

n Technical support registration number (if applicable)

n Product name, model or version, and serial number

n Operating system name and version

n Firmware version

n Error messages

n Product-specific reports and logs

n Add-on products or components

n Third-party products or components

Other useful sites

Other websites that can be used to find information:

https://community.arubanetworks.com/

https://www.arubanetworks.com/techdocs/AOS-CX/help_portal/Content/home.htm

https://www.arubanetworks.com/techdocs/hardware/DocumentationPortal/Content/home.htm

Airheads social
forums and
Knowledge
Base

AOS-CX Switch
Software
Documentation
Portal

Aruba
Hardware
Documentation
and
Translations

AOS-CX 10.09 Quality of Service Guide | (6200, 6300, 6400 Switch Series)

55

Portal

Aruba software

https://asp.arubanetworks.com/downloads

Software
licensing

End-of-Life
information

Aruba
Developer Hub

https://lms.arubanetworks.com/

https://www.arubanetworks.com/support-services/end-of-life/

https://developer.arubanetworks.com/

Accessing Updates
You can access updates from the Aruba Support Portal or the HPE My Networking Website.

Aruba Support Portal

https://asp.arubanetworks.com/downloads

If you are unable to find your product in the Aruba Support Portal, you may need to search My Networking,
where older networking products can be found:

My Networking

https://www.hpe.com/networking/support

To view and update your entitlements, and to link your contracts and warranties with your profile, go to the
Hewlett Packard Enterprise Support Center More Information on Access to Support Materials page:

https://support.hpe.com/portal/site/hpsc/aae/home/

Access to some updates might require product entitlement when accessed through the Hewlett Packard
Enterprise Support Center. You must have an HP Passport set up with relevant entitlements.

Some software products provide a mechanism for accessing software updates through the product
interface. Review your product documentation to identify the recommended software update method.

To subscribe to eNewsletters and alerts:

https://asp.arubanetworks.com/notifications/subscriptions (requires an active Aruba Support Portal (ASP)
account to manage subscriptions). Security notices are viewable without an ASP account.

Warranty Information
To view warranty information for your product, go to https://www.arubanetworks.com/support-
services/product-warranties/.

Regulatory Information
To view the regulatory information for your product, view the Safety and Compliance Information for Server,
Storage, Power, Networking, and Rack Products, available at https://www.hpe.com/support/Safety-
Compliance-EnterpriseProducts

Additional regulatory information

Support and Other Resources | 56

Aruba is committed to providing our customers with information about the chemical substances in our
products as needed to comply with legal requirements, environmental data (company programs, product
recycling, energy efficiency), and safety information and compliance data, (RoHS and WEEE). For more
information, see https://www.arubanetworks.com/company/about-us/environmental-citizenship/.

Documentation Feedback
Aruba is committed to providing documentation that meets your needs. To help us improve the
documentation, send any errors, suggestions, or comments to Documentation Feedback (docsfeedback-
switching@hpe.com). When submitting your feedback, include the document title, part number, edition,
and publication date located on the front cover of the document. For online help content, include the
product name, product version, help edition, and publication date located on the legal notices page.

AOS-CX 10.09 Quality of Service Guide | (6200, 6300, 6400 Switch Series)

57