AOS-CX 10.09 CoPP Guide

4100i, 6000, 6100 Switch Series

Published: February 2022
Edition: 2

Copyright Information

© Copyright 2022 Hewlett Packard Enterprise Development LP.

Open Source Code

This product includes code licensed under the GNU General Public License, the GNU Lesser General Public
License, and/or certain other open source licenses. A complete machine-readable copy of the source code
corresponding to such code is available upon request. This offer is valid to anyone in receipt of this
information and shall expire three years following the date of the final distribution of this product version
by Hewlett Packard Enterprise Company. To obtain such source code, send a check or money order in the
amount of US $10.00 to:

Hewlett Packard Enterprise Company
6280 America Center Drive
San Jose, CA 95002
USA

Notices

The information contained herein is subject to change without notice. The only warranties for Hewlett
Packard Enterprise products and services are set forth in the express warranty statements accompanying
such products and services. Nothing herein should be construed as constituting an additional warranty.
Hewlett Packard Enterprise shall not be liable for technical or editorial errors or omissions contained herein.

Confidential computer software. Valid license from Hewlett Packard Enterprise required for possession, use,
or copying. Consistent with FAR 12.211 and 12.212, Commercial Computer Software, Computer Software
Documentation, and Technical Data for Commercial Items are licensed to the U.S. Government under
vendor's standard commercial license.

Links to third-party websites take you outside the Hewlett Packard Enterprise website. Hewlett Packard
Enterprise has no control over and is not responsible for information outside the Hewlett Packard
Enterprise website.

| 2

Contents
Contents
| Contents                            |                                |          |           | 3   |
| ----------------------------------- | ------------------------------ | -------- | --------- | --- |
| About                               | this                           | document |           | 4   |
| Applicableproducts                  |                                |          |           | 4   |
| Latestversionavailableonline        |                                |          |           | 4   |
| Commandsyntaxnotationconventions    |                                |          |           | 4   |
| Abouttheexamples                    |                                |          |           | 5   |
| Identifyingswitchportsandinterfaces |                                |          |           | 5   |
| Control                             | Plane                          | Policing | (CoPP)    | 7   |
| Overview                            |                                |          |           | 7   |
| ConfiguringCoPP                     |                                |          |           | 7   |
|                                     | Example                        |          |           | 7   |
| Actualratesinhardware               |                                |          |           | 8   |
| CoPPcommands                        |                                |          |           | 8   |
|                                     | Classesoftraffic               |          |           | 8   |
|                                     | applycopp-policy               |          |           | 9   |
|                                     | class                          |          |           | 10  |
|                                     | clearcopp-policystatistics     |          |           | 11  |
|                                     | copp-policy                    |          |           | 11  |
|                                     | default-class                  |          |           | 13  |
|                                     | resetcopp-policy               |          |           | 13  |
|                                     | showcopp-policy                |          |           | 15  |
|                                     | showcopp-policyfactory-default |          |           | 16  |
|                                     | showcopp-policystatistics      |          |           | 17  |
|                                     | showtechcopp                   |          |           | 19  |
| Support                             | and                            | Other    | Resources | 20  |
| AccessingArubaSupport               |                                |          |           | 20  |
| AccessingUpdates                    |                                |          |           | 21  |
|                                     | ArubaSupportPortal             |          |           | 21  |
|                                     | MyNetworking                   |          |           | 21  |
| WarrantyInformation                 |                                |          |           | 21  |
| RegulatoryInformation               |                                |          |           | 21  |
| DocumentationFeedback               |                                |          |           | 22  |
3
AOS-CX10.09CoPPGuide| (4100i,6000,6100Switches)

Chapter 1

About this document

About this document

This document describes features of the AOS-CX network operating system. It is intended for administrators
responsible for installing, configuring, and managing Aruba switches on a network.

Applicable products
This document applies to the following products:

n Aruba 4100i Switch Series (JL817A, JL818A)

n Aruba 6000 Switch Series (R8N85A, R8N86A, R8N87A, R8N88A, R8N89A)

n Aruba 6100 Switch Series (JL675A, JL676A, JL677A, JL678A, JL679A)

Latest version available online
Updates to this document can occur after initial publication. For the latest versions of product
documentation, see the links provided in Support and Other Resources.

Command syntax notation conventions

Convention

Usage

example-text

Identifies commands and their options and operands, code examples,
filenames, pathnames, and output displayed in a command window. Items that
appear like the example text in the previous column are to be entered exactly
as shown and are required unless enclosed in brackets ([ ]).

example-text

In code and screen examples, indicates text entered by a user.

Any of the following:
n <example-text>
n <example-text>
n example-text

n example-text

|

{ }

Identifies a placeholder—such as a parameter or a variable—that you must
substitute with an actual value in a command or in code:

n For output formats where italic text cannot be displayed, variables are
enclosed in angle brackets (< >). Substitute the text—including the
enclosing angle brackets—with an actual value.

n For output formats where italic text can be displayed, variables might

or might not be enclosed in angle brackets. Substitute the text
including the enclosing angle brackets, if any, with an actual value.

Vertical bar. A logical OR that separates multiple items from which you can
choose only one.
Any spaces that are on either side of the vertical bar are included for
readability and are not a required part of the command syntax.

Braces. Indicates that at least one of the enclosed items is required.

AOS-CX 10.09 CoPP Guide | (4100i, 6000, 6100 Switches)

4

| Convention |     | Usage                                                    |     |
| ---------- | --- | -------------------------------------------------------- | --- |
| [ ]        |     | Brackets.Indicatesthattheencloseditemoritemsareoptional. |     |
| …or        |     | Ellipsis:                                                |     |
... n Incodeandscreenexamples,averticalorhorizontalellipsisindicatesan
omissionofinformation.
n Insyntaxusingbracketsandbraces,anellipsisindicatesitemsthatcanbe
repeated.Whenanitemfollowedbyellipsesisenclosedinbrackets,zero
ormoreitemscanbespecified.
| About the | examples |     |     |
| --------- | -------- | --- | --- |
Examplesinthisdocumentarerepresentativeandmightnotmatchyourparticularswitchorenvironment.
Theslotandportnumbersinthisdocumentareforillustrationonlyandmightbeunavailableonyour
switch.
| Understandingthe | CLI prompts |     |     |
| ---------------- | ----------- | --- | --- |
Whenillustratingthepromptsinthecommandlineinterface(CLI),thisdocumentusesthegenericterm
switch,insteadofthehostnameoftheswitch.Forexample:
switch>
TheCLIpromptindicatesthecurrentcommandcontext.Forexample:
switch>
Indicatestheoperatorcommandcontext.
switch#
Indicatesthemanagercommandcontext.
switch(CONTEXT-NAME)#
Indicatestheconfigurationcontextforafeature.Forexample:
switch(config-if)#
Identifiestheinterfacecontext.
| Variable information | in  | CLI prompts |     |
| -------------------- | --- | ----------- | --- |
Incertainconfigurationcontexts,thepromptmayincludevariableinformation.Forexample,wheninthe
VLANconfigurationcontext,aVLANnumberappearsintheprompt:
switch(config-vlan-100)#
Whenreferringtothiscontext,thisdocumentusesthesyntax:
switch(config-vlan-<VLAN-ID>)#
Where<VLAN-ID>isavariablerepresentingtheVLANnumber.
| Identifying | switch | ports and | interfaces |
| ----------- | ------ | --------- | ---------- |
Physicalportsontheswitchandtheircorrespondinglogicalsoftwareinterfacesareidentifiedusingthe
format:
member/slot/port
| On the 4100iSwitch | Series |     |     |
| ------------------ | ------ | --- | --- |
Aboutthisdocument|5

n member: Always 1. VSF is not supported on this switch.

n slot: Always 1. This is not a modular switch, so there are no slots.

n port: Physical number of a port on the switch.

For example, the logical interface 1/1/4 in software is associated with physical port 4 on the switch.

On the 6000 and 6100 Switch Series

n member: Always 1. VSF is not supported on this switch.

n slot: Always 1. This is not a modular switch, so there are no slots.

n port: Physical number of a port on the switch.

For example, the logical interface 1/1/4 in software is associated with physical port 4 on the switch.

AOS-CX 10.09 CoPP Guide | (4100i, 6000, 6100 Switches)

6

Control Plane Policing (CoPP)

Chapter 2

Control Plane Policing (CoPP)

Overview
CoPP provides a way for administrators to protect the management processor on the switch from high
packet loads (generated by malicious or nonmalicious sources) that might interfere with its ability to keep
data plane traffic flowing. For example, a denial of service attack can result in excessive traffic that would
slow down the management processor and negatively affect switch throughput.

A CoPP policy is composed of one or more classes. Each class defines one or more target protocols and how
their traffic is managed. Every policy also has a default class to regulate packets that do not match any other
class. The following actions can be applied for all packets matching a class:

n Drop the packets. (Excluding the default class.)

n Set the processing priority in the range 0 to 6 (0 - highest priority and 6 - lowest priority).

n Set the maximum data rate in packets per second (pps) at which each line module can send packets to the

management processor.

Up to 32 CoPP policies can be defined, but only one can be active on the switch at a time.

A CoPP policy must always be active on the switch. By default, the switch has a CoPP policy named default
which is automatically applied at first boot.

When the switch is rebooted, the CoPP policy that was actively applied to the switch before the reboot
occurred will be applied if it was saved to the startup configuration with the copy running-config startup-
config command.

Configuring CoPP

Procedure

1. Configure the default CoPP policy, edit an existing policy, or create a policy with the command copp-

policy.

2. Add, edit, or remove classes in the policy with the command class.

3.

If the policy is not the active policy on the switch, apply it with the command apply copp-policy.
(Changes made to an active policy take effect immediately and do not need to be applied.)

4. Review the CoPP policy configuration settings with the command show copp-policy.

Example

This example creates the following configuration:

n Defines a new policy named My_CoppPolicy.

n Adds two classes to the policy.

n Activates the policy.

n Displays policy configuration settings.

AOS-CX 10.09 CoPP Guide | (4100i, 6000, 6100 Switches)

7

| switch(config)# |     | copp-policy |     | My_CoppPolicy |     |     |     |
| --------------- | --- | ----------- | --- | ------------- | --- | --- | --- |
switch(config-copp)#
|                       |       |             | class    | igmp          | priority      | 6 rate 5000       |          |
| --------------------- | ----- | ----------- | -------- | ------------- | ------------- | ----------------- | -------- |
| switch(config-copp)#  |       |             | class    | lacp          | priority      | 2 rate 2000       |          |
| switch(config-copp)#  |       |             | exit     |               |               |                   |          |
| switch(config)#       |       | apply       |          | copp-policy   | My_CoppPolicy |                   |          |
| switch(config)#       |       | exit        |          |               |               |                   |          |
| switch#               | show  | copp-policy |          | My_CoppPolicy |               |                   |          |
| class                 |       |             |          | drop priority | rate          | pps hardware      | rate pps |
| --------------------- |       |             |          | ---- -------- | --------      | ----------------- |          |
| igmp                  |       |             |          | 6             | 5000          | 5000              |          |
| lacp                  |       |             |          | 2             | 2000          | 2000              |          |
| default               |       |             |          | 1             | 6000          | 6000              |          |
| Actual                | rates | in          | hardware |               |               |                   |          |
Currently,theactualrateinhardwareisdeterminedbyamappingbasedontheconfiguredrate,shownby
thefollowingtableofthefirstnineactualrates.
Theprecedingtableshowsthefirstnineactualratesavailableinhardware.Higherratesareavailable.The
'show copp-policy statistics class <CLASS>'commandcanbeusedtoshowtheactualratein
hardwareforaspecificclass.The'show copp-policy <NAME>'commandcanbeusedtoshowtheactual
ratesforallclassesconfiguredinaspecificCoPPpolicy,ifthepolicyisactivelyapplied.
| CoPP    | commands |         |     |     |     |     |     |
| ------- | -------- | ------- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| Classes | of       | traffic |     |     |     |     |     |
Thedifferentclassesoftrafficthatcanbeindividuallyconfiguredare:
n arp-broadcast:AddressResolutionProtocolpacketswithabroadcastdestinationMACaddress.
n arp-unicast:AddressResolutionProtocolpacketswithaswitchsystemdestinationMACaddress.
n dhcp:DynamicHostConfigurationProtocolpackets.AlsoincludessnoopedDHCPpacketsifDHCP
snoopingisenabled.
n icmp-broadcast-ipv4:InternetControlMessageProtocolpacketswithabroadcastormulticast
destinationIPv4address.
n icmp-multicast-ipv6:InternetControlMessageProtocolpacketswithawell-knownmulticast
destinationIPv6address.
icmp-security-ipv6:IPv6InternetControlMessageProtocolpacketsinterceptedandinspected.
n
n icmp-unicast-ipv4:InternetControlMessageProtocolpacketswithadestinationIPv4addressowned
bytheswitch
icmp-unicast-ipv6:InternetControlMessageProtocolpacketswithadestinationIPv6addressowned
n
bytheswitch.
igmp:InternetGroupManagementProtocolpackets.
n
lacp:LinkAggregationControlProtocolpacketswiththedestinationMACaddress01:80:c2:00:00:02.
n
n lldp:LinkLayerDiscoveryProtocolpacketswiththedestinationMACaddress01:80:c2:00:00:0e.
n loop-protect:LoopProtectionpacketswiththedestinationMACaddress09:00:09:09:13:a6.
n manageability:UnicastIPpacketsaddressedtotheswitchforspecificprotocolsthatdonothavea
dedicatedCoPPclasslikeHTTP,SSH,RADIUS.
n mvrp:MultipleVLANRegistrationProtocolpacketswiththedestinationMACaddress01:80:c2:00:00:20
or01:80:c2:00:00:21
ControlPlanePolicing(CoPP)|8

n ntp: Network Time Protocol packets with a destination IP address owned by the switch.

n stp: Spanning Tree Protocol (STP) packets with the destination MAC address 01:80:c2:00:00:00 or Per-

VLAN Spanning Tree (PVST) packets with the destination MAC address 01:00:0c:cc:cc:cd.

n udld: Unidirectional Link Detection packets with the destination MAC address 01:00:0c:cc:cc:cc or

00:e0:52:00:00:00, or Cisco Discovery Protocol packets with the destination MAC address
01:00:0c:cc:cc:cc.

n unresolved-ip-unicast: Packets to be software forwarded by the management processor.

To regulate any other traffic destined for the CPU, every CoPP policy has a class named default that can
also be configured to regulate other traffic to the CPU or prevent other traffic from being delivered.

All IPsec traffic received by the CPU will be regulated by the ipsec class regardless of the encapsulated protocol.

apply copp-policy
apply copp-policy { <NAME> | default }
no apply copp-policy <NAME>

Description

Applies a CoPP policy to the switch, replacing the policy that is in effect. There may be a brief interruption in
traffic flow to the management processor while the switch implements the change.

Enter the no apply copp-policy <NAME> command with the name of a CoPP policy to unapply a CoPP
policy and apply the default CoPP policy. This will only take effect if the specified policy is actively applied.
Since there must always be a CoPP policy applied, this command effectively attempts to replace the applied
CoPP policy with the default CoPP policy. The default CoPP policy cannot be unapplied using this command.

Parameter

<NAME>

default

Usage

Description

Specifies the name of the policy to apply. Length: 1 to 64
characters.

Applies the default policy.

If the new policy cannot be applied (for example, due to a lack of hardware resources), the previous policy
remains in effect. Use the show copp-policy command to determine which policy is in effect.

Examples

Applying a policy named My_CoppPolicy:

switch(config)# apply copp-policy My_CoppPolicy

Applying the default policy:

switch(config)# apply copp-policy default

Unapplying a policy named My_CoppPolicy:

AOS-CX 10.09 CoPP Guide | (4100i, 6000, 6100 Switches)

9

| switch(config)# |     | no apply | copp-policy | My_CoppPolicy |     |
| --------------- | --- | -------- | ----------- | ------------- | --- |
CommandHistory
| Release        |     |     |     | Modification |     |
| -------------- | --- | --- | --- | ------------ | --- |
| 10.07orearlier |     |     |     | --           |     |
CommandInformation
| Platforms | Commandcontext |     |     | Authority |     |
| --------- | -------------- | --- | --- | --------- | --- |
Allplatforms config Administratorsorlocalusergroupmemberswithexecutionrights
forthiscommand.
class
| class <CLASS>    | {drop | | priority       | <PRIORITY> |     | rate <RATE>} |
| ---------------- | ----- | ---------------- | ---------- | --- | ------------ |
| no class <CLASS> |       | {drop | priority | <PRIORITY> |     | rate <RATE>} |
Description
AddsaclasstoaCoPPpolicy.Iftheclassexists,theexistingclassismodified.Changesmadetoanactive
(applied)policytakeeffectimmediately.
Whenaddingormodifyingaclassinanactivepolicy,CoPPimmediatelyactivatesthechangeontheswitch.
Incaseswhereinsufficienthardwareresourcesexisttosupportaclassoritsaction,CoPPfailstoactivatethe
changedclassontheswitch.Whenthisfailureoccurs,theactiveconfigurationontheswitchwillbeoutof
syncwithitsdefinition.Todiagnoseandremedythissituation:
n Usetheshow copp-policycommandtodeterminewhichclassesareoutofsyncbetweentheactive
policyanditsdefinition.
n Usethereset copp-policycommandtosynchronizetheactivepolicywithitsdefinition.This
synchronizationchangestheclassesinthedefinitiontomatchtheclassesintheactivepolicy.
Thenoformofthiscommandremovestheconfigurationfortheclass.Trafficfortheclasswillbeprioritized
andregulatedusingthefactorydefaultconfigurationfortheclass.Usetheshow copp-policy factory-
defaultcommandtodisplaythefactorydefaultCoPPpolicy.Tostopaclassoftrafficfromreachingthe
processor,settheclassactiontodrop.
| Parameter |     |     |     | Description |     |
| --------- | --- | --- | --- | ----------- | --- |
<CLASS>
Specifiestheclasstoaddoredit.
| drop     |            |     |     | Droppacketsmatchingtheselectedclass. |     |
| -------- | ---------- | --- | --- | ------------------------------------ | --- |
| priority | <PRIORITY> |     |     |                                      |     |
Specifiesthepriorityforpacketsmatchingtheselectedclass.
Range:0to6.
rate <RATE> Specifiesthemaximumrate,inpacketspersecond(pps),for
packetsmatchingtheselectedclass.Range:25to99999.
Examples
AddingaclasstohandleLACPtrafficwithpriorityof2andrateof2000:
ControlPlanePolicing(CoPP)|10

| switch(config-copp)# |     | class lacp | priority | 2 rate 2000 |
| -------------------- | --- | ---------- | -------- | ----------- |
ModifyingtheclasstodropLLDPpackets:
| switch(config-copp)# |     | class lldp | drop |     |
| -------------------- | --- | ---------- | ---- | --- |
RemovingtheclassthathandlesLLDPpackets.
| switch(config-copp)# |     | no class | lldp |     |
| -------------------- | --- | -------- | ---- | --- |
CommandHistory
| Release        |     |     | Modification |     |
| -------------- | --- | --- | ------------ | --- |
| 10.07orearlier |     |     | --           |     |
CommandInformation
| Platforms | Commandcontext |     | Authority |     |
| --------- | -------------- | --- | --------- | --- |
Allplatforms config-copp Administratorsorlocalusergroupmemberswithexecutionrights
forthiscommand.
| clear copp-policy |            | statistics |     |     |
| ----------------- | ---------- | ---------- | --- | --- |
| clear copp-policy | statistics |            |     |     |
Description
ResetsstatisticsforallCoPPclassestozero.
Examples
Displayingandthenresettingstatisticsforallclassesintheactivepolicy:
CommandHistory
| Release        |     |     | Modification |     |
| -------------- | --- | --- | ------------ | --- |
| 10.07orearlier |     |     | --           |     |
CommandInformation
| Platforms | Commandcontext |     | Authority |     |
| --------- | -------------- | --- | --------- | --- |
Allplatforms Operator(>)orManager OperatorsorAdministratorsorlocalusergroupmemberswith
executionrightsforthiscommand.Operatorscanexecutethis
(#)
commandfromtheoperatorcontext(>)only.
copp-policy
| copp-policy | {<NAME> | | default [revert]} |     |     |
| ----------- | ------- | ------------------- | --- | --- |
11
| AOS-CX10.09CoPPGuide| | (4100i,6000,6100Switches) |     |     |     |
| --------------------- | ------------------------- | --- | --- | --- |

| no copp-policy <NAME> |     |     |
| --------------------- | --- | --- |
Description
CreatesaCoPPpolicyandswitchestotheconfig-coppcontextforthepolicy.Or,ifthespecifiedpolicy
exists,switchestotheconfig-coppcontextforthepolicy.Apredefinedpolicy,nameddefault,contains
factorydefaultclassesandisappliedtotheswitchatfirststartup.Thispolicycannotbedeleted,butits
configurationcanbechanged.
ThenoformofthiscommandremovesaCoPPpolicy.Ifapolicyisactive(applied),itcannotberemoved.It
mustbereplacedwithanotherpolicybeforeitcanberemoved.
| Parameter |     | Description                                         |
| --------- | --- | --------------------------------------------------- |
| <NAME>    |     | Specifiesthenameofthepolicytoaddoredit.Length:1to64 |
characters.Thenamemustnotbeasubstringofanyofthe
followingreservedwords:default,factory-default,commands,
configuration,orstatistics.
| default |     | SpecifiesthedefaultCoPPpolicy.Usethisdefaultpolicyto |
| ------- | --- | ---------------------------------------------------- |
configurethedefaultpolicy.
| revert |     | SetsthedefaultCoPPpolicytoitsfactorysettings. |
| ------ | --- | --------------------------------------------- |
Examples
CreatingapolicynamedMy_CoppPolicy:
| switch(config)# | copp-policy | My_CoppPolicy |
| --------------- | ----------- | ------------- |
switch(config-copp)#
RemovingapolicynamedMy_CoppPolicy:
| switch(config)# | no copp-policy | My_CoppPolicy |
| --------------- | -------------- | ------------- |
Settingthedefaultpolicytoitsfactorysettings:
| switch(config)# | copp-policy | default revert |
| --------------- | ----------- | -------------- |
UnapplyingthepolicynamedMy_CoppPolicy:
| switch(config)# | no apply | copp-policy My_CoppPolicy |
| --------------- | -------- | ------------------------- |
CommandHistory
| Release        |     | Modification |
| -------------- | --- | ------------ |
| 10.07orearlier |     | --           |
CommandInformation
ControlPlanePolicing(CoPP)|12

| Platforms | Commandcontext |     | Authority |     |
| --------- | -------------- | --- | --------- | --- |
Allplatforms config Administratorsorlocalusergroupmemberswithexecutionrights
forthiscommand.
default-class
| default-class | priority | <PRIORITY> | rate <RATE> |     |
| ------------- | -------- | ---------- | ----------- | --- |
Description
ConfiguresthedefaultclassthatisautomaticallydefinedforallCoPPpolicies.Thedefaultclasscannotbe
removed,butitsconfigurationcanbechanged.Thedefaultclassisappliedtotrafficthatdoesnotmatch
anyotherclassdefinedforapolicy.
| Parameter |     |     | Description |     |
| --------- | --- | --- | ----------- | --- |
priority <PRIORITY> Specifiesthepriorityforpacketsmatchingtheselectedclass.
Range:0to7.
rate <RATE> Specifiesthemaximumrate,inpacketspersecond(pps),for
packetsmatchingtheselectedclass.Range:25to99999.
Example
Settingthedefaultclasstoapriorityof2andrateof2000:
| switch(config-copp)# |     | default-class | priority | 2 rate 2000 |
| -------------------- | --- | ------------- | -------- | ----------- |
CommandHistory
| Release        |     |     | Modification |     |
| -------------- | --- | --- | ------------ | --- |
| 10.07orearlier |     |     | --           |     |
CommandInformation
| Platforms | Commandcontext |     | Authority |     |
| --------- | -------------- | --- | --------- | --- |
Allplatforms config-copp Administratorsorlocalusergroupmemberswithexecutionrights
forthiscommand.
reset copp-policy
| reset copp-policy | { <NAME> | | default | }   |     |
| ----------------- | -------- | --------- | --- | --- |
Description
ResetsanactiveCoPPpolicytomatchthesettingsthatarecurrentlyineffectfortheactivepolicyonthe
switch.Changesmadetotheactivepolicythatcouldnotbeactivatedareremovedfromtheactivepolicy.
WhentheswitchfailstoaddormodifyaclassinanactiveCoPPpolicy,itispossibletheactivepolicysettings
ontheswitchmaybeoutofsyncwiththosedefinedinthepolicy.
13
| AOS-CX10.09CoPPGuide| | (4100i,6000,6100Switches) |     |     |     |
| --------------------- | ------------------------- | --- | --- | --- |

| Parameter |     |     |     | Description                                     |     |     |
| --------- | --- | --- | --- | ----------------------------------------------- | --- | --- |
| <NAME>    |     |     |     | Specifiesthenameofthepolicytoreset.Length:1to64 |     |     |
characters.
| default |     |     |     | Resetsthedefaultpolicytomatchitsactivesettings. |     |     |
| ------- | --- | --- | --- | ----------------------------------------------- | --- | --- |
Examples
ResettingapolicynamedMy_CoppPolicy:
| switch# show          | copp-policy |       | My_CoppPolicy    |          |                   |          |
| --------------------- | ----------- | ----- | ---------------- | -------- | ----------------- | -------- |
| class                 |             | drop  | priority         | rate     | pps hardware      | rate pps |
| --------------------- |             | ----  | --------         | -------- | ----------------- |          |
| igmp                  |             |       | 6                | 5000     | 5000              |          |
| lacp                  |             |       | 2                | 2000     | 2000              |          |
| default               |             |       | 1                | 6000     | 6000              |          |
| switch# config        | terminal    |       |                  |          |                   |          |
| switch(config)#       | copp-policy |       | My_CoppPolicy    |          |                   |          |
| switch(config-copp)#  |             | class | stp              | priority | 4 rate 4000       |          |
| switch(config-copp)#  |             | do    | show copp-policy |          | My_CoppPolicy     |          |
| class                 |             | drop  | priority         | rate     | pps hardware      | rate pps |
| --------------------- |             | ----  | --------         | -------- | ----------------- |          |
| igmp                  |             |       | 6                | 5000     | 5000              |          |
| lacp                  |             |       | 2                | 2000     | 2000              |          |
| default               |             |       | 1                | 6000     | 6000              |          |
% Warning: user-specified classes in CoPP policy My_CoppPolicy do not match
| active configuration. |     |     |     |     |     |     |
| --------------------- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
switch(config-copp)# do show copp-policy My_CoppPolicy configuration
| class                 |     | drop | priority | rate     | pps applied |     |
| --------------------- | --- | ---- | -------- | -------- | ----------- | --- |
| --------------------- |     | ---- | -------- | -------- | -------     |     |
| igmp                  |     |      | 6        | 5000     | yes         |     |
| lacp                  |     |      | 2        | 2000     | yes         |     |
| stp                   |     |      | 4        | 4000     | no          |     |
| default               |     |      | 1        | 6000     | yes         |     |
% Warning: user-specified classes in CoPP policy My_CoppPolicy do not match
| active configuration. |       |             |             |               |                   |          |
| --------------------- | ----- | ----------- | ----------- | ------------- | ----------------- | -------- |
| switch(config-copp)#  |       | exit        |             |               |                   |          |
| switch(config)#       | reset | copp-policy |             | My_CoppPolicy |                   |          |
| switch(config)#       | do    | show        | copp-policy | My_CoppPolicy |                   |          |
| class                 |       | drop        | priority    | rate          | pps hardware      | rate pps |
| --------------------- |       | ----        | --------    | --------      | ----------------- |          |
| igmp                  |       |             | 6           | 5000          | 5000              |          |
| lacp                  |       |             | 2           | 2000          | 2000              |          |
| default               |       |             | 1           | 6000          | 6000              |          |
Resettingthedefaultpolicy:
| switch(config)# | reset | copp-policy |     | default |     |     |
| --------------- | ----- | ----------- | --- | ------- | --- | --- |
CommandHistory
| Release        |     |     |     | Modification |     |     |
| -------------- | --- | --- | --- | ------------ | --- | --- |
| 10.07orearlier |     |     |     | --           |     |     |
CommandInformation
ControlPlanePolicing(CoPP)|14

| Platforms |     | Commandcontext |     | Authority |     |     |
| --------- | --- | -------------- | --- | --------- | --- | --- |
Allplatforms config Administratorsorlocalusergroupmemberswithexecutionrights
forthiscommand.
| show | copp-policy |         |            |            |                 |     |
| ---- | ----------- | ------- | ---------- | ---------- | --------------- | --- |
| show | copp-policy | [<NAME> | | default] | [commands] | [configuration] |     |
Description
ShowsCoPPpolicysettingsforaspecificCoPPpolicy.Whenenteredwithoutspecifyingeitheranameorthe
defaultparameter,showsalltheCoPPpolicysettingsthatareactiveontheswitchandhavesuccessfully
beenprogrammedintothehardware.
Awarningisdisplayedif:
n Theactiveanduser-specifiedapplicationsofapolicydonotmatch.
n Theactiveanduser-specifiedconfigurationsofapolicydonotmatch.
| Parameter |     |     |     | Description |     |     |
| --------- | --- | --- | --- | ----------- | --- | --- |
<NAME>
Specifiesthenameofthepolicyforwhichtodisplaysettings.
Length:1to64characters.
| default  |     |     |     | DisplaysCoPPsettingsforthedefaultpolicy. |     |     |
| -------- | --- | --- | --- | ---------------------------------------- | --- | --- |
| commands |     |     |     | DisplaysoutputasCLIcommands.             |     |     |
configuration Displaysuser-specifiedCoPPsettingsandnottheactivesettings.
Example
DisplayingtheCoPPpoliciesdefinedintheconfigurationandtheactiveapplication:
| switch# | show             | copp-policy |     |     |     |     |
| ------- | ---------------- | ----------- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| applied | copp_policy_name |             |     |     |     |     |
| ------- | ---------------- |             |     |     |     |     |
My_CoppPolicy
| applied | default |     |     |     |     |     |
| ------- | ------- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
switch#
DisplayingtheactiveconfigurationofallCoPPpoliciesasCLIcommands:
Displayingthedefaultpolicy:
| switch#               | show      | copp-policy | default        |          |                   |          |
| --------------------- | --------- | ----------- | -------------- | -------- | ----------------- | -------- |
| class                 |           |             | drop priority  | rate     | pps hardware      | rate pps |
| --------------------- |           |             | ---- --------  | -------- | ----------------- |          |
| arp-broadcast         |           |             | 2              | 1250     | 1250              |          |
| arp-unicast           |           |             | 3              | 825      | 825               |          |
|                       | <--OUTPUT | OMITTED     | FOR BREVITY--> |          |                   |          |
| default               |           |             | 2              | 4225     | 4225              |          |
CommandHistory
15
| AOS-CX10.09CoPPGuide| |     | (4100i,6000,6100Switches) |     |     |     |     |
| --------------------- | --- | ------------------------- | --- | --- | --- | --- |

| Release        |     |     |     |     | Modification |     |     |     |
| -------------- | --- | --- | --- | --- | ------------ | --- | --- | --- |
| 10.07orearlier |     |     |     |     | --           |     |     |     |
CommandInformation
| Platforms |     | Commandcontext |     |     | Authority |     |     |     |
| --------- | --- | -------------- | --- | --- | --------- | --- | --- | --- |
Allplatforms Operator(>)orManager OperatorsorAdministratorsorlocalusergroupmemberswith
executionrightsforthiscommand.Operatorscanexecutethis
(#)
commandfromtheoperatorcontext(>)only.
| show | copp-policy |                 | factory-default |            |     |     |     |     |
| ---- | ----------- | --------------- | --------------- | ---------- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| show | copp-policy | factory-default |                 | [commands] |     |     |     |     |
Description
Displaytheconfigurationforthefactory-defaultCoPPpolicy.
| Parameter |     |     |     |     | Description                  |     |     |     |
| --------- | --- | --- | --- | --- | ---------------------------- | --- | --- | --- |
| commands  |     |     |     |     | DisplaysoutputasCLIcommands. |     |     |     |
Example
Displayingthefactory-defaultpolicy:
| switch#               |           | show copp-policy |      | factory-default |     |          |     |     |
| --------------------- | --------- | ---------------- | ---- | --------------- | --- | -------- | --- | --- |
| class                 |           |                  | drop | priority        |     | rate pps |     |     |
| --------------------- |           |                  | ---- | --------        |     | -------- |     |     |
| arp-broadcast         |           |                  |      | 2               |     | 1250     |     |     |
| arp-unicast           |           |                  |      | 3               |     | 825      |     |     |
|                       | <--OUTPUT | OMITTED          | FOR  | BREVITY-->      |     |          |     |     |
| default               |           |                  |      | 2               |     | 4225     |     |     |
DisplayingtheactiveconfigurationofMy_CoppPolicy(My_CoppPolicyisapplied):
switch#
|                       |     | config terminal |             |             |               |               |                   |          |
| --------------------- | --- | --------------- | ----------- | ----------- | ------------- | ------------- | ----------------- | -------- |
| switch(config)#       |     | apply           | copp-policy |             | My_CoppPolicy |               |                   |          |
| switch(config)#       |     | do              | show        | copp-policy |               | My_CoppPolicy |                   |          |
| class                 |     |                 | drop        | priority    |               | rate pps      | hardware          | rate pps |
| --------------------- |     |                 | ----        | --------    |               | --------      | ----------------- |          |
| igmp                  |     |                 |             | 6           |               | 5000          | 5000              |          |
| lacp                  |     |                 |             | 2           |               | 2000          | 2000              |          |
| default               |     |                 |             | 1           |               | 6000          | 6000              |          |
DisplayingtheactiveconfigurationofMy_CoppPolicyasCLIcommands:
switch#
|             |       | show copp-policy |     | My_CoppPolicy |      | commands |     |     |
| ----------- | ----- | ---------------- | --- | ------------- | ---- | -------- | --- | --- |
| copp-policy |       | My_CoppPolicy    |     |               |      |          |     |     |
|             | class | igmp priority    |     | 6 rate        | 5000 |          |     |     |
|             | class | lacp priority    |     | 2 rate        | 2000 |          |     |     |
ControlPlanePolicing(CoPP)|16

|       | default-class |     | priority      | 1 rate | 6000 |     |
| ----- | ------------- | --- | ------------- | ------ | ---- | --- |
| apply | copp-policy   |     | My_CoppPolicy |        |      |     |
Displayingtheuser-specifiedconfigurationofMy_CoppPolicy:
| switch#               |     | show copp-policy |     | My_CoppPolicy | configuration |         |
| --------------------- | --- | ---------------- | --- | ------------- | ------------- | ------- |
| class                 |     |                  |     | drop priority | rate pps      | applied |
| --------------------- |     |                  |     | ---- -------- | --------      | ------- |
| igmp                  |     |                  |     | 6             | 5000          | yes     |
| lacp                  |     |                  |     | 2             | 2000          | yes     |
| default               |     |                  |     | 1             | 6000          | yes     |
Displayingtheuser-specifiedconfigurationofMy_CoppPolicyasCLIcommands:
| switch#     |               | show copp-policy |               | My_CoppPolicy | commands | configuration |
| ----------- | ------------- | ---------------- | ------------- | ------------- | -------- | ------------- |
| copp-policy |               | My_CoppPolicy    |               |               |          |               |
|             | class         | igmp             | priority      | 6 rate        | 5000     |               |
|             | class         | lacp             | priority      | 2 rate        | 2000     |               |
|             | default-class |                  | priority      | 1 rate        | 6000     |               |
| apply       | copp-policy   |                  | My_CoppPolicy |               |          |               |
CommandHistory
| Release        |     |     |     |     | Modification |     |
| -------------- | --- | --- | --- | --- | ------------ | --- |
| 10.07orearlier |     |     |     |     | --           |     |
CommandInformation
| Platforms |     | Commandcontext |     |     | Authority |     |
| --------- | --- | -------------- | --- | --- | --------- | --- |
Allplatforms Operator(>)orManager OperatorsorAdministratorsorlocalusergroupmemberswith
|     |     | (#) |     |     | executionrightsforthiscommand.Operatorscanexecutethis |     |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | ----------------------------------------------------- | --- |
commandfromtheoperatorcontext(>)only.
| show | copp-policy |     | statistics |     |     |     |
| ---- | ----------- | --- | ---------- | --- | --- | --- |
show copp-policy statistics [class <CLASS> | default-class | non-zero]
Description
Displaysstatisticsforallclasses,asingleclass,orallclasseswithnon-zerostatisticsintheactiveCoPPpolicy.
| Parameter |     |     |     |     | Description |     |
| --------- | --- | --- | --- | --- | ----------- | --- |
<CLASS>
Specifiestheclassforwhichtodisplaystatistics.
| default-class |     |     |     |     | Displaysstatisticsforthedefaultclass. |     |
| ------------- | --- | --- | --- | --- | ------------------------------------- | --- |
non-zero Displaysstatisticsforallclasseswithnon-zerostatistics.
Usage
17
| AOS-CX10.09CoPPGuide| |     | (4100i,6000,6100Switches) |     |     |     |     |
| --------------------- | --- | ------------------------- | --- | --- | --- | --- |

Ifasingleclassisspecified,thepriorityandratethathasbeenprogrammedinhardwareforthatclasswillbe
shown.
Examples
ApplyingthedefaultCoPPpolicyanddisplayingstatisticsforallclassesintheactivelyappliedpolicy:
Theratedisplayedistheactualrateinhardware.
| switch#         | config |             | terminal    |             |            |         |     |     |
| --------------- | ------ | ----------- | ----------- | ----------- | ---------- | ------- | --- | --- |
| switch(config)# |        |             | apply       | copp-policy |            | default |     |     |
| switch(config)# |        |             | exit        |             |            |         |     |     |
| switch#         | show   | copp-policy |             | statistics  |            |         |     |     |
| Statistics      |        | for         | CoPP policy |             | 'default': |         |     |     |
Totals:
| packets |     | passed | :   | 1000 |     |     | packets dropped | : 1500 |
| ------- | --- | ------ | --- | ---- | --- | --- | --------------- | ------ |
Class: default
| packets |     | passed | :   | 400 |     |     | packets dropped | : 600 |
| ------- | --- | ------ | --- | --- | --- | --- | --------------- | ----- |
Class: arp-broadcast
| packets |           | passed | :       | 500 |            |     | packets dropped | : 800 |
| ------- | --------- | ------ | ------- | --- | ---------- | --- | --------------- | ----- |
|         | <--OUTPUT |        | OMITTED | FOR | BREVITY--> |     |                 |       |
Displayingstatisticsforthedefaultclassintheactivepolicy:
| switch(config)# |     |     | show copp-policy |     |            | statistics | default-class |     |
| --------------- | --- | --- | ---------------- | --- | ---------- | ---------- | ------------- | --- |
| Statistics      |     | for | CoPP policy      |     | 'default': |            |               |     |
Class: default
| Description: |       | Default |     |     |      |     |                 |       |
| ------------ | ----- | ------- | --- | --- | ---- | --- | --------------- | ----- |
| priority     |       |         |     | :   | 2    |     |                 |       |
| rate         | (pps) |         |     | :   | 4225 |     |                 |       |
| packets      |       | passed  | :   | 400 |      |     | packets dropped | : 600 |
Displayingstatisticsfortheclassarp-broadcastintheactivelyappliedpolicy:
| switch#    | show | copp-policy |             | statistics |            | class | arp-broadcast |     |
| ---------- | ---- | ----------- | ----------- | ---------- | ---------- | ----- | ------------- | --- |
| Statistics |      | for         | CoPP policy |            | 'default': |       |               |     |
Class: arp-broadcast
| Description: |       | Address | Resolution |     | Protocol |     | broadcast       |       |
| ------------ | ----- | ------- | ---------- | --- | -------- | --- | --------------- | ----- |
| priority     |       |         |            | :   | 2        |     |                 |       |
| rate         | (pps) |         |            | :   | 1250     |     |                 |       |
| packets      |       | passed  | :          | 500 |          |     | packets dropped | : 800 |
CommandHistory
| Release        |     |     |     |     |     | Modification |     |     |
| -------------- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | ------------ | --- | --- |
| 10.07orearlier |     |     |     |     |     | --           |     |     |
CommandInformation
ControlPlanePolicing(CoPP)|18

| Platforms |     | Commandcontext |     | Authority |
| --------- | --- | -------------- | --- | --------- |
Allplatforms OperatorsorAdministratorsorlocalusergroupmemberswith
Operator(>)orManager
|     |     | (#) |     | executionrightsforthiscommand.Operatorscanexecutethis |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | ----------------------------------------------------- |
commandfromtheoperatorcontext(>)only.
| show tech | copp |     |     |     |
| --------- | ---- | --- | --- | --- |
| show tech | copp |     |     |     |
Description
DisplaystheoutputofallshowcommandssupportedbyCoPP.
Examples
Capturingthecommandoutputintoalocalfile:
| switch# | show | tech copp | local-file |     |
| ------- | ---- | --------- | ---------- | --- |
Show Tech output stored in local-file. Please use 'copy show-tech local-file' to
| copy-out | this | file. |     |     |
| -------- | ---- | ----- | --- | --- |
switch#
|            | copy | show-tech | local-file | ?   |
| ---------- | ---- | --------- | ---------- | --- |
| REMOTE_URL |      | URL of    | syntax     |     |
{tftp://|sftp://USER@}{IP|HOST}[:PORT][;blocksize=VAL]/FILE
| STORAGE_URL |      | URL of    | syntax usb:/file |     |
| ----------- | ---- | --------- | ---------------- | --- |
| switch#     | copy | show-tech | local-file       |     |
CommandHistory
| Release        |     |     |     | Modification |
| -------------- | --- | --- | --- | ------------ |
| 10.07orearlier |     |     |     | --           |
CommandInformation
| Platforms |     | Commandcontext |     | Authority |
| --------- | --- | -------------- | --- | --------- |
Allplatforms Manager(#) Administratorsorlocalusergroupmemberswithexecutionrights
forthiscommand.
19
| AOS-CX10.09CoPPGuide| |     | (4100i,6000,6100Switches) |     |     |
| --------------------- | --- | ------------------------- | --- | --- |

Support and Other Resources

Chapter 3

Support and Other Resources

Accessing Aruba Support

Aruba Support Services

https://www.arubanetworks.com/support-services/

Aruba Support Portal

https://asp.arubanetworks.com/

North America telephone

1-800-943-4526 (US & Canada Toll-Free Number)

+1-408-754-1200 (Primary - Toll Number)

+1-650-385-6582 (Backup - Toll Number - Use only when all other
numbers are not working)

International telephone

https://www.arubanetworks.com/support-services/contact-
support/

Be sure to collect the following information before contacting Support:

n Technical support registration number (if applicable)

n Product name, model or version, and serial number

n Operating system name and version

n Firmware version

n Error messages

n Product-specific reports and logs

n Add-on products or components

n Third-party products or components

Other useful sites

Other websites that can be used to find information:

https://community.arubanetworks.com/

https://www.arubanetworks.com/techdocs/AOS-CX/help_portal/Content/home.htm

Airheads social
forums and
Knowledge
Base

AOS-CX Switch
Software
Documentation
Portal

AOS-CX 10.09 CoPP Guide | (4100i, 6000, 6100 Switches)

20

https://www.arubanetworks.com/techdocs/hardware/DocumentationPortal/Content/home.htm

Aruba
Hardware
Documentation
and
Translations
Portal

Aruba software

https://asp.arubanetworks.com/downloads

Software
licensing

End-of-Life
information

Aruba
Developer Hub

https://lms.arubanetworks.com/

https://www.arubanetworks.com/support-services/end-of-life/

https://developer.arubanetworks.com/

Accessing Updates
You can access updates from the Aruba Support Portal or the HPE My Networking Website.

Aruba Support Portal

https://asp.arubanetworks.com/downloads

If you are unable to find your product in the Aruba Support Portal, you may need to search My Networking,
where older networking products can be found:

My Networking

https://www.hpe.com/networking/support

To view and update your entitlements, and to link your contracts and warranties with your profile, go to the
Hewlett Packard Enterprise Support Center More Information on Access to Support Materials page:

https://support.hpe.com/portal/site/hpsc/aae/home/

Access to some updates might require product entitlement when accessed through the Hewlett Packard
Enterprise Support Center. You must have an HP Passport set up with relevant entitlements.

Some software products provide a mechanism for accessing software updates through the product
interface. Review your product documentation to identify the recommended software update method.

To subscribe to eNewsletters and alerts:

https://asp.arubanetworks.com/notifications/subscriptions (requires an active Aruba Support Portal (ASP)
account to manage subscriptions). Security notices are viewable without an ASP account.

Warranty Information
To view warranty information for your product, go to https://www.arubanetworks.com/support-
services/product-warranties/.

Regulatory Information

Support and Other Resources | 21

To view the regulatory information for your product, view the Safety and Compliance Information for Server,
Storage, Power, Networking, and Rack Products, available at https://www.hpe.com/support/Safety-
Compliance-EnterpriseProducts

Additional regulatory information

Aruba is committed to providing our customers with information about the chemical substances in our
products as needed to comply with legal requirements, environmental data (company programs, product
recycling, energy efficiency), and safety information and compliance data, (RoHS and WEEE). For more
information, see https://www.arubanetworks.com/company/about-us/environmental-citizenship/.

Documentation Feedback
Aruba is committed to providing documentation that meets your needs. To help us improve the
documentation, send any errors, suggestions, or comments to Documentation Feedback (docsfeedback-
switching@hpe.com). When submitting your feedback, include the document title, part number, edition,
and publication date located on the front cover of the document. For online help content, include the
product name, product version, help edition, and publication date located on the legal notices page.

AOS-CX 10.09 CoPP Guide | (4100i, 6000, 6100 Switches)

22