AOS-CX 10.09 Quality of
Service Guide

4100i, 6000, 6100 Switch Series

Published: June 2022
Edition: 3

Copyright Information

© Copyright 2022 Hewlett Packard Enterprise Development LP.

Open Source Code

This product includes code licensed under the GNU General Public License, the GNU Lesser General Public
License, and/or certain other open source licenses. A complete machine-readable copy of the source code
corresponding to such code is available upon request. This offer is valid to anyone in receipt of this
information and shall expire three years following the date of the final distribution of this product version
by Hewlett Packard Enterprise Company. To obtain such source code, send a check or money order in the
amount of US $10.00 to:

Hewlett Packard Enterprise Company
6280 America Center Drive
San Jose, CA 95002
USA

Notices

The information contained herein is subject to change without notice. The only warranties for Hewlett
Packard Enterprise products and services are set forth in the express warranty statements accompanying
such products and services. Nothing herein should be construed as constituting an additional warranty.
Hewlett Packard Enterprise shall not be liable for technical or editorial errors or omissions contained herein.

Confidential computer software. Valid license from Hewlett Packard Enterprise required for possession, use,
or copying. Consistent with FAR 12.211 and 12.212, Commercial Computer Software, Computer Software
Documentation, and Technical Data for Commercial Items are licensed to the U.S. Government under
vendor's standard commercial license.

Links to third-party websites take you outside the Hewlett Packard Enterprise website. Hewlett Packard
Enterprise has no control over and is not responsible for information outside the Hewlett Packard
Enterprise website.

Acknowledgments

Intel®, Itanium®, Optane™, Pentium®, Xeon®, Intel Inside®, and the Intel Inside logo are trademarks of
Intel Corporation in the U.S. and other countries.

Microsoft® and Windows® are either registered trademarks or trademarks of Microsoft Corporation in the
United States and/or other countries.

Adobe® and Acrobat® are trademarks of Adobe Systems Incorporated.

Java® and Oracle® are registered trademarks of Oracle and/or its affiliates.

UNIX® is a registered trademark of The Open Group.

All third-party marks are property of their respective owners.

| 2

Contents
Contents
| Contents                                     |                        | 3   |
| -------------------------------------------- | ---------------------- | --- |
| About this                                   | document               | 5   |
| Applicableproducts                           |                        | 5   |
| Latestversionavailableonline                 |                        | 5   |
| Commandsyntaxnotationconventions             |                        | 5   |
| Abouttheexamples                             |                        | 6   |
| Identifyingswitchportsandinterfaces          |                        | 6   |
| QoS overview                                 |                        | 8   |
| End-to-endQoSbehavior                        |                        | 8   |
|                                              | Besteffortservice      | 8   |
|                                              | ClassofService         | 8   |
|                                              | Differentiatedservices | 9   |
| QoSontheswitch                               |                        | 10  |
|                                              | QoStrust               | 12  |
|                                              | DynamicQoStrustmode    | 13  |
|                                              | Portratelimiting       | 13  |
|                                              | Queueprofiles          | 13  |
|                                              | Scheduleprofiles       | 14  |
|                                              | Egressqueueshaping     | 14  |
|                                              | Terms                  | 15  |
| QoS configuration                            |                        | 16  |
| ConfiguringQoS                               |                        | 16  |
| ConfiguringexpeditedforwardingforVoIPtraffic |                        | 17  |
| Configuringratelimiting                      |                        | 19  |
| Configuringegressqueueshaping                |                        | 20  |
| SupportingEthernet802.1DClassofService       |                        | 20  |
| Monitoringqueueoperation                     |                        | 21  |
| QoS commands                                 |                        | 23  |
| applyqos                                     |                        | 23  |
| mapqueue                                     |                        | 25  |
| min-bandwidth                                |                        | 26  |
| namequeue                                    |                        | 27  |
| qoscos                                       |                        | 28  |
| qosdscp                                      |                        | 29  |
| qosdscp-map                                  |                        | 30  |
| qosqueue-profile                             |                        | 32  |
| qosschedule-profile                          |                        | 32  |
| qostrust                                     |                        | 34  |
| rate-limit                                   |                        | 35  |
| showinterfacequeues                          |                        | 38  |
| showinterfaceqos                             |                        | 39  |
| showqosdscp-map                              |                        | 40  |
| showqosqueue-profile                         |                        | 41  |
| showqosschedule-profile                      |                        | 43  |
3
AOS-CX10.09QualityofServiceGuide| (4100i,6000,6100SwitchSeries)

| showqostrust          |                    |           | 44  |
| --------------------- | ------------------ | --------- | --- |
| strictqueue           |                    |           | 45  |
| Support               | and Other          | Resources | 47  |
| AccessingArubaSupport |                    |           | 47  |
| AccessingUpdates      |                    |           | 48  |
|                       | ArubaSupportPortal |           | 48  |
|                       | MyNetworking       |           | 48  |
| WarrantyInformation   |                    |           | 48  |
| RegulatoryInformation |                    |           | 48  |
| DocumentationFeedback |                    |           | 49  |
Contents|4

Chapter 1

About this document

About this document

This document describes features of the AOS-CX network operating system. It is intended for administrators
responsible for installing, configuring, and managing Aruba switches on a network.

Applicable products
This document applies to the following products:

n Aruba 4100i Switch Series (JL817A, JL818A)

n Aruba 6000 Switch Series (R8N85A, R8N86A, R8N87A, R8N88A, R8N89A)

n Aruba 6100 Switch Series (JL675A, JL676A, JL677A, JL678A, JL679A)

Latest version available online
Updates to this document can occur after initial publication. For the latest versions of product
documentation, see the links provided in Support and Other Resources.

Command syntax notation conventions

Convention

Usage

example-text

Identifies commands and their options and operands, code examples,
filenames, pathnames, and output displayed in a command window. Items that
appear like the example text in the previous column are to be entered exactly
as shown and are required unless enclosed in brackets ([ ]).

example-text

In code and screen examples, indicates text entered by a user.

Any of the following:
n <example-text>
n <example-text>
n example-text

n example-text

|

{ }

Identifies a placeholder—such as a parameter or a variable—that you must
substitute with an actual value in a command or in code:

n For output formats where italic text cannot be displayed, variables are
enclosed in angle brackets (< >). Substitute the text—including the
enclosing angle brackets—with an actual value.

n For output formats where italic text can be displayed, variables might

or might not be enclosed in angle brackets. Substitute the text
including the enclosing angle brackets, if any, with an actual value.

Vertical bar. A logical OR that separates multiple items from which you can
choose only one.
Any spaces that are on either side of the vertical bar are included for
readability and are not a required part of the command syntax.

Braces. Indicates that at least one of the enclosed items is required.

AOS-CX 10.09 Quality of Service Guide | (4100i, 6000, 6100 Switch Series)

5

| Convention |     | Usage                                                    |     |
| ---------- | --- | -------------------------------------------------------- | --- |
| [ ]        |     | Brackets.Indicatesthattheencloseditemoritemsareoptional. |     |
| …or        |     | Ellipsis:                                                |     |
... n Incodeandscreenexamples,averticalorhorizontalellipsisindicatesan
omissionofinformation.
n Insyntaxusingbracketsandbraces,anellipsisindicatesitemsthatcanbe
repeated.Whenanitemfollowedbyellipsesisenclosedinbrackets,zero
ormoreitemscanbespecified.
| About the | examples |     |     |
| --------- | -------- | --- | --- |
Examplesinthisdocumentarerepresentativeandmightnotmatchyourparticularswitchorenvironment.
Theslotandportnumbersinthisdocumentareforillustrationonlyandmightbeunavailableonyour
switch.
| Understandingthe | CLI prompts |     |     |
| ---------------- | ----------- | --- | --- |
Whenillustratingthepromptsinthecommandlineinterface(CLI),thisdocumentusesthegenericterm
switch,insteadofthehostnameoftheswitch.Forexample:
switch>
TheCLIpromptindicatesthecurrentcommandcontext.Forexample:
switch>
Indicatestheoperatorcommandcontext.
switch#
Indicatesthemanagercommandcontext.
switch(CONTEXT-NAME)#
Indicatestheconfigurationcontextforafeature.Forexample:
switch(config-if)#
Identifiestheinterfacecontext.
| Variable information | in  | CLI prompts |     |
| -------------------- | --- | ----------- | --- |
Incertainconfigurationcontexts,thepromptmayincludevariableinformation.Forexample,wheninthe
VLANconfigurationcontext,aVLANnumberappearsintheprompt:
switch(config-vlan-100)#
Whenreferringtothiscontext,thisdocumentusesthesyntax:
switch(config-vlan-<VLAN-ID>)#
Where<VLAN-ID>isavariablerepresentingtheVLANnumber.
| Identifying | switch | ports and | interfaces |
| ----------- | ------ | --------- | ---------- |
Physicalportsontheswitchandtheircorrespondinglogicalsoftwareinterfacesareidentifiedusingthe
format:
member/slot/port
| On the 4100iSwitch | Series |     |     |
| ------------------ | ------ | --- | --- |
Aboutthisdocument|6

n member: Always 1. VSF is not supported on this switch.

n slot: Always 1. This is not a modular switch, so there are no slots.

n port: Physical number of a port on the switch.

For example, the logical interface 1/1/4 in software is associated with physical port 4 on the switch.

On the 6000 and 6100 Switch Series

n member: Always 1. VSF is not supported on this switch.

n slot: Always 1. This is not a modular switch, so there are no slots.

n port: Physical number of a port on the switch.

For example, the logical interface 1/1/4 in software is associated with physical port 4 on the switch.

AOS-CX 10.09 Quality of Service Guide | (4100i, 6000, 6100 Switch Series)

7

Chapter 2
QoS overview
QoS overview
QualityofService(QoS)enablesnetworkadministratorstocustomizehowdifferenttypesoftrafficare
servicedonanetwork,takingintoaccounttheuniquecharacteristicsofeachtraffictypeanditsimportance
withinanorganization'sinfrastructure.QoSensuresuniformandefficienttraffichandling,keepingthemost
importanttrafficmovingatanacceptablespeed,regardlessofcurrentbandwidthusage.Italsoprovides
methodsforadministratorstocontroltheprioritysettingsofinboundtrafficarrivingateachnetwork
device.
| End-to-end | QoS behavior |     |
| ---------- | ------------ | --- |
TheQoSsettingsoneachnetworkdevicemustbealignedtoachievethedesiredend-to-endQoSbehavior
foranetwork.Threeservicetypescanbeusedtocategorizeandprioritizenetworktraffic:
n BestEffortService
n EthernetClassofService(CoS)
InternetDifferentiatedServices(DiffServ)
n
Foranetworkasawhole,itisbesttoselectoneservicetypetouseastheprimaryend-to-endbehavior,and
thenusetheothertwoservicetypesasneeded.
| Best effort | service |     |
| ----------- | ------- | --- |
Thisisthesimplestservicetype.Alltrafficistreatedequallyinafirst-come,first-servedmanner.Ifthetraffic
loadislowinrelationtothecapacityofthenetworklinks,thenthereisnoneedfortheadministrative
complexityandcostsofmaintainingamorecomplexend-to-endpolicy.Thisissometimescalledover-
provisioning,asalllinkspeedsaremuchhigherthanpeakloadsonthenetwork.
| Class of | Service |     |
| -------- | ------- | --- |
ClassofService(CoS)isamethodforclassifyingnetworktrafficatlayer2bymarking802.1QVLANEthernet
frameswithoneofeightserviceclasses.
| CoS | Traffic type         | Example protocols |
| --- | -------------------- | ----------------- |
| 7   | NetworkControl       | STP,PVST          |
| 6   | InternetworkControl  | BGP,OSPF,PIM      |
| 5   | Voice(<10mslatency)  | VoIP(UDP)         |
| 4   | Video(<100mslatency) | RTP               |
| 3   | CriticalApplications | SQLRPC,SNMP       |
| 2   | ExcellentEffort      | NFS,SMB           |
8
AOS-CX10.09QualityofServiceGuide| (4100i,6000,6100SwitchSeries)

| CoS | Traffic type |     |     |     | Example protocols |     |
| --- | ------------ | --- | --- | --- | ----------------- | --- |
| 0   | BestEffort   |     |     |     | HTTP,TELNET       |     |
| 1   | Background   |     |     |     | SMTP,IMAP         |     |
CoS1isdeliberatelysetasthelowestCoS.Thisenablesatrafficservicelevelbelowthedefault(besteffort)
trafficleveltobespecified.
The3-bitPriorityCodePoint(PCP)fieldwithinthe16-bitEthernetVLANtagisusedtomarktheCoS.
+--------+--------+--------+----------+-----------+--------
| | mac-da | | mac-sa | | 0x8100 | VLAN | tag | | ethertype | | data... |     |
| -------- | -------- | --------------- | ----- | --------- | --------- | --- |
+--------+--------+--------+----------+-----------+--------
|     |     | /   | \   |     |     |     |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
|     |     | /   |     | \   |     |     |
|     |     | /   |     | \   |     |     |
+-----+-----+---------+
|     |     | | pcp | dei | | vlan_id | |   |     |     |
| --- | --- | ----------- | --------- | --- | --- | --- |
+-----+-----+---------+
| Differentiated | services |     |     |     |     |     |
| -------------- | -------- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
Differentiatedservices(DiffServ)isamethodforclassifyingnetworktrafficatlayer3bymarkingpackets
withoneof64differentserviceclasses.ServicesclassesareidentifiedbytheDifferentiatedservicesCode
Point(DSCP)value.SomecommonDSCPvaluesare:
| DSCP     | Name           |     | Service                | class |     | RFC  |
| -------- | -------------- | --- | ---------------------- | ----- | --- | ---- |
| 56       | CS6            |     | NetworkControl         |       |     | 2474 |
| 46       | EF             |     | Telephony              |       |     | 3246 |
| 40       | CS5            |     | Signaling              |       |     | 2474 |
| 34,36,38 | AF41,AF42,AF43 |     | MultimediaConferencing |       |     | 2597 |
| 32       | CS4            |     | Real-TimeInteractive   |       |     | 2474 |
| 26,28,30 | AF31,AF32,AF33 |     | MultimediaStreaming    |       |     | 2597 |
| 24       | CS3            |     | BroadcastVideo         |       |     | 2474 |
| 18,20,22 | AF21,AF22,AF23 |     | Low-LatencyData        |       |     | 2597 |
| 16       | CS2            |     | OAM                    |       |     | 2474 |
| 00       | CS0,BE,DF      |     | BestEffort             |       |     | 2474 |
| 10,12,14 | AF11,AF12,AF13 |     | BulkData               |       |     | 2597 |
| 08       | CS1            |     | Low-PriorityData       |       |     | 3662 |
DSCPCS1(08)CoS1isdeliberatelysetasthelowestpriority.Thisenablesatrafficservicelevelbelowthe
standard(besteffortordefaultforwarding)leveltobespecified.
QoSoverview |9

The DSCP value is carried within the IPv4 DSCP field or the upper 6-bits of the 8-bit IPv6 Traffic Class (TC)
field.

IPv4
+----+-----+----+----+---+-------+----+------+-------+------+------+-------
|ver |dscp |ecn |len |id |offset |ttl |proto |chksum |ip-sa |ip-da | data..
+----+-----+----+----+---+-------+----+------+-------+------+------+-------

+------+-----+
| dscp | ecn |
+------+-----+

\

\

/

/

/

IPv6 \
+-----+-----+-----+-------+-------------+-----------+-------+-------+--------
| ver | tc | len | label | next_header | hop_limit | ip-sa | ip-da | data...
+-----+-----+-----+-------+-------------+-----------+-------+-------+--------

QoS on the switch
There are five key stages a packet passes through when traversing a switch: ingress, prioritization,
destination determination, egress queuing, and transmission.

Switches with at least 52 ports will experience negative performance if a flood occurs where at least 42 ports are

members of the same VLAN and all 52 ports have QoS rules applied to them.

AOS-CX 10.09 Quality of Service Guide | (4100i, 6000, 6100 Switch Series)

10

The following diagram shows how different packets might traverse a switch. It also shows how QoS
configuration settings apply at each stage.

QoS overview | 11

QoS trust

Traffic priorities for networks can be carried in VLAN tags using the CoS Priority Code Point (PCP), or in IP
packet headers using the Differentiated Services Code Point (DSCP). Whether these priorities affect how
traffic is serviced depends on how the QoS trust mode is configured on the switch. The QoS trust mode
specifies how the switch assigns values to ingress packets and can be set globally for all interfaces or
individually for each interface. By default the trust mode is set to cos, meaning the existing QoS information
in the packet will be trusted. The priority values of DSCP packets are mapped to corresponding CoS values.
If the trust mode is set to none the CoS value in the incoming packet will be marked as zero.

For example:

AOS-CX 10.09 Quality of Service Guide | (4100i, 6000, 6100 Switch Series)

12

Dynamic QoS trust mode

The device profile feature can dynamically set the QoS trust mode on an interface based on the LLDP
information exchanged with a link partner. The device profile's trust mode temporarily overrides the static
trust mode configured for an interface. The override remains in place as long as that link partner is
connected and its link state is up. Use command show interface IFNAME qos to view the current QoS trust
mode for an interface.

Port rate limiting

Port rate limiting helps control undesirable traffic. Its purpose is to allow enough broadcast, multicast, and
ICMP rate-limit traffic for the network to function properly, while preventing flooding and traffic storms.

Unknown unicast rate limiting is supported.

Queue profiles

A queue profile defines the queues that are associated with an interface to control the transmission of
packets. Each profile supports up to eight queues, numbered 0 to 7. The larger the queue number, the

QoS overview | 13

higheritspriorityduringtransmissionscheduling.Packetsareassignedtoaqueuebasedontheirlocal
priorityvalue(0to7).Aqueueprofilemustmapalleightlocalpriorityvaluestowhateverqueuesarebeing
usedontheswitch,andascheduleprofilemustspecifytheconfigurationforthosesamequeues.Aqueue
withoutalocalpriorityvalueassignedtoitisnotusedtostorepackets.Packetsareassignedtothequeue
basedonCoSvalue.ThequeueprofiledefinesqueuenumbertoCoSmapping.Thefactory-defaultmap
crossmapsthe0and1values.
| switch#   | show qos queue-profile |                           | factory-default |
| --------- | ---------------------- | ------------------------- | --------------- |
| queue_num | cos                    | name                      |                 |
| --------- | -----------            | ----                      |                 |
| 0         | 1                      | Scavenger_and_backup_data |                 |
| 1         | 0                      |                           |                 |
| 2         | 2                      |                           |                 |
| 3         | 3                      |                           |                 |
| 4         | 4                      |                           |                 |
| 5         | 5                      |                           |                 |
| 6         | 6                      |                           |                 |
| 7         | 7                      |                           |                 |
CommonlyusedcommandsforworkingwithQoSqueuesareasfollows:
n qos queue-profile:Createsanemptyqueue-profileandenterstheprofileconfigurationcontext.
n name queue:Assignsadescriptivenametoaqueue.
map queue:MapsqueuetoCoS.
n
apply qos queue-profile:Appliesaqueue-profilegloballytoallinterfaces.
n
| Schedule | profiles |     |     |
| -------- | -------- | --- | --- |
Ascheduleprofiledeterminestheorderinwhichqueuesareselectedfortransmission,andtheamountof
serviceavailableforeachqueue.Ascheduleprofilemustbeconfiguredoneveryinterfaceatalltimes.A
scheduleprofilecanbeappliedgloballytoallinterfaces,oronlytospecificinterfaces.Theswitchdescribedin
thisguidesupportstheGuaranteedMinimumBandwidth(GMB),Strict,andStrictEQSscheduling
algorithms.
Theswitchdescribedinthisguidesupports8queues.
| switch#        | show qos schedule-profile |         |                    |
| -------------- | ------------------------- | ------- | ------------------ |
| profile_status | profile_name              |         |                    |
| -------------- | ------------              |         |                    |
| applied        | factory-default           |         |                    |
| complete       | strict                    |         |                    |
| switch#        | show qos schedule-profile |         | factory-default    |
| queue_num      | algorithm                 | percent | max-bandwidth_kbps |
| ---------      | -------------             | ------- | ------------------ |
| 0              | min-bandwidth             | 2       |                    |
| 1              | min-bandwidth             | 3       |                    |
| 2              | min-bandwidth             | 30      |                    |
| 3              | min-bandwidth             | 10      |                    |
| 4              | min-bandwidth             | 10      |                    |
| 5              | min-bandwidth             | 10      |                    |
| 6              | min-bandwidth             | 15      |                    |
| 7              | min-bandwidth             | 20      |                    |
| Egress queue   | shaping                   |         |                    |
14
AOS-CX10.09QualityofServiceGuide| (4100i,6000,6100SwitchSeries)

Egress queue shaping limits the amount of traffic transmitted per strict output queue. The buffer
associated with each egress queue stores excess traffic to absorb bursts and smooths the output rate. For
example, an administrator might limit strict-priority queue traffic to prevent low-priority queue starvation in
the event that a device inappropriately sends too many higher-priority packets.

Egress queue shaping can be configured on an Ethernet port or on a link aggregation group (LAG). To
configure egress queue shaping, define a schedule profile with the strict priority algorithm assigned to each
queue.

Terms

Class

For networking, a set of packets sharing a common characteristic. For example, all IPv4 packets.

Code point

The name of a packet header field, or the value carried within a packet header field:

n Example 1: Priority code point (PCP) is the name of a field in the IEEE 802.1Q VLAN tag.

n Example 2: Differentiated services code point (DSCP) is the name of a field carried within the DS field

of an IP packet header.

Class of service (CoS)

A 3-bit value used to mark packets with one of eight classes (levels of priority). It is carried within the
priority code point (PCP) field of the IEEE 802.1Q VLAN tag.

Differentiated services code point (DSCP)

A 6-bit value used to mark packets for different per-hop behavior as originally defined by IETF RFC 2474.
It is carried within the differentiated services (DS) field of the IPv4 or IPv6 header.

Metadata

Information labels associated with each packet in the switch, separate from the packet headers and data.
These labels are used by the switch in its handling of the packet. For example: arrival port, egress port,
VLAN membership, and local priority.

Priority code point (PCP)

The name of a 3-bit field in the IEEE 802.1Q VLAN tag. It carries the CoS value to mark a packet with one
of eight classes (priority levels).

Quality of service (QoS)

General term used when describing or measuring performance. For networking, it means how different
classes of packets are treated when traversing a network or device.

Traffic class (TC)

General term for a set of packets sharing a common characteristic. It used to be the name of an 8-bit
field in the IPv6 header originally defined by IETF RFC 2460. This field name was changed to
differentiated services by IETF RFC 2474.

Type of service (ToS)

General term when there are different levels of treatment (fare class). It used to be the name of an 8-bit
field in the IPv4 header originally defined by IETF RFC 791. This field name was changed to differentiated
services by IETF RFC 2474.

QoS overview | 15

Chapter 3
QoS configuration
QoS configuration
| Configuring | QoS |     |     |
| ----------- | --- | --- | --- |
Procedure
1. Configurehowvaluesareassignedtoingresspacketswiththecommandsqos dscp-map,andqos
trust.
2. Optionally,addaratelimitforingresstrafficononeormoreinterfaceswiththecommandrate-
limit.
3. IfyoudonotwanttousethedefaultQoSqueueprofileforqueuemapping,createoneormore
customqueueprofileswiththecommandqos queue-profile.Foreachqueueinacustomqueue
profile:
| a. AssignaCoSvaluemappingwiththecommandmap |     |     | queue. |
| ------------------------------------------ | --- | --- | ------ |
b. Optionally,defineadescriptivenamewiththecommandname queue.Allqueuesmustbe
mappedtoaCoSvalue,andthequeuesselectedforusemustbeincontiguousorderstartingat
0.
4. IfyoudonotwanttousethedefaultQoSscheduleprofiletodeterminetheorderinwhichqueuesare
selectedtotransmitapacket,createoneormorecustomscheduleprofileswiththecommandqos
schedule-profile.Foreachqueueinacustomschedulequeueprofile,defineschedulingpriority
| withthecommandsstrict |     | queueandmin-bandwidth. |     |
| --------------------- | --- | ---------------------- | --- |
5. Optionallyforstrictqueues,configureegressqueueshapingtolimitegressbandwidthonaninterface
toavaluethatislessthanitslinerate.Usethemax-bandwidthparameterofthestrict queue
command.
6. ActivateQoSsettingswiththecommandapply qos.Thiscommandletsyouapplyaqueueprofile
andscheduleprofilegloballytoallinterfaces,orascheduleprofileoverridetoindividualinterfaces.
7. ViewQoSconfigurationsettingswiththeprovidedshowcommands.
Examples
| This example | creates the | following | configuration: |
| ------------ | ----------- | --------- | -------------- |
ThefollowingexamplecreatesaqueueprofilenamedQ1andassignsqueuetoCoSvaluemapping:
| Queue | CoSValue |     |     |
| ----- | -------- | --- | --- |
| 0     | 0        |     |     |
| 1     | 1        |     |     |
| 2     | 2        |     |     |
| 3     | 3        |     |     |
| 4     | 4        |     |     |
16
| AOS-CX10.09QualityofServiceGuide| | (4100i,6000,6100SwitchSeries) |     |     |
| --------------------------------- | ----------------------------- | --- | --- |

| Queue | CoSValue |     |     |     |     |     |     |
| ----- | -------- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| 5     | 5        |     |     |     |     |     |     |
| 6     | 6        |     |     |     |     |     |     |
| 7     | 7        |     |     |     |     |     |     |
CreatesascheduleprofilenamedS1andassignsminimumbandwidthforeachqueuewithacorresponding
percentagevalue:
| Queue | Minimumbandwidth |     |     | (pecentage) |     |     |     |
| ----- | ---------------- | --- | --- | ----------- | --- | --- | --- |
| 0     | 5                |     |     |             |     |     |     |
| 1     | 5                |     |     |             |     |     |     |
| 2     | 10               |     |     |             |     |     |     |
| 3     | 10               |     |     |             |     |     |     |
| 4     | 20               |     |     |             |     |     |     |
| 5     | 20               |     |     |             |     |     |     |
| 6     | 10               |     |     |             |     |     |     |
| 7     | 20               |     |     |             |     |     |     |
AppliesQ1andS1toallinterfacesthatdonothaveaQoSoverrideapplied.
| switch(config)#          |     | qos | trust            | cos     |         |            |     |
| ------------------------ | --- | --- | ---------------- | ------- | ------- | ---------- | --- |
| switch(config)#          |     | qos | queue-profile    |         | Q1      |            |     |
| switch(config-queue)#    |     |     | map              | queue 0 | cos 0   |            |     |
| switch(config-queue)#    |     |     | map              | queue 1 | cos 1   |            |     |
| switch(config-queue)#    |     |     | map              | queue 2 | cos 2   |            |     |
| switch(config-queue)#    |     |     | map              | queue 3 | cos 3   |            |     |
| switch(config-queue)#    |     |     | map              | queue 4 | cos 4   |            |     |
| switch(config-queue)#    |     |     | map              | queue 5 | cos 5   |            |     |
| switch(config-queue)#    |     |     | map              | queue 6 | cos 6   |            |     |
| switch(config-queue)#    |     |     | map              | queue 7 | cos 7   |            |     |
| switch(config)#          |     | qos | schedule-profile |         | S1      |            |     |
| switch(config-schedule)# |     |     | min-bandwidth    |         | queue 0 | percent 5  |     |
| switch(config-schedule)# |     |     | min-bandwidth    |         | queue 1 | percent 5  |     |
| switch(config-schedule)# |     |     | min-bandwidth    |         | queue 2 | percent 10 |     |
| switch(config-schedule)# |     |     | min-bandwidth    |         | queue 3 | percent 10 |     |
| switch(config-schedule)# |     |     | min-bandwidth    |         | queue 4 | percent 20 |     |
| switch(config-schedule)# |     |     | min-bandwidth    |         | queue 5 | percent 20 |     |
| switch(config-schedule)# |     |     | min-bandwidth    |         | queue 6 | percent 10 |     |
| switch(config-schedule)# |     |     | min-bandwidth    |         | queue 7 | percent 20 |     |
switch(config-schedule)# apply qos queue-profile Q1 schedule-profile S1
| Configuring |     | expedited |     | forwarding |     | for VoIP | traffic |
| ----------- | --- | --------- | --- | ---------- | --- | -------- | ------- |
VoiceoverIP(VoIP)trafficisdelayandjittersensitive.ForoptimumtransmissionofVoIPtraffic,dwelltime
innetworkdevicesmustbekepttoaminimumandallnetworkdevicesinthedatapathmusthaveidentical
QoSconfiguration |17

per-hopbehaviors.ToconfigureadedicatedqueueontheswitchtohandleVoIPtrafficwithpriorityservice
beforeallotherqueues,followthesesteps.
Prerequisites
ThisscenarioassumesthatVoIPpacketsareuniquelyidentifiedusingDiffServcodepoint46,Expedited
Forwarding(EF).
Procedure
1. MapDSCPEFpacketsexclusivelytoCoSvalue6.ThedefaultDSCPmaphaseightcodepoints(40
through47),thataremappedtoCoSvalue5.Toreserve CoSvalue6forVoIPtraffic,theothercode
pointsmustbereassigned.Inthisscenario,CoSvalue6isusedforallreassignments,includingfor
codepoint40,CallSignalingprotocol(CS5).
| switch(config)# | qos | dscp-map | 40  | cos | 6 name CS5 |     |
| --------------- | --- | -------- | --- | --- | ---------- | --- |
| switch(config)# | qos | dscp-map | 41  | cos | 6          |     |
| switch(config)# | qos | dscp-map | 42  | cos | 6          |     |
| switch(config)# | qos | dscp-map | 43  | cos | 6          |     |
| switch(config)# | qos | dscp-map | 44  | cos | 6          |     |
| switch(config)# | qos | dscp-map | 45  | cos | 6          |     |
2. Queue7isthehighestpriorityqueue,soforbestthroughput,createaqueueprofilethatmapsCoS
toqueue7.
| switch(config)#       | qos | queue-profile |       | ef_priority            |     |     |
| --------------------- | --- | ------------- | ----- | ---------------------- | --- | --- |
| switch(config-queue)# |     | name          | queue | 7 Voice_Priority_Queue |     |     |
| switch(config-queue)# |     | map           | queue | 7 cos                  | 5   |     |
| switch(config-queue)# |     | map           | queue | 6 cos                  | 7   |     |
| switch(config-queue)# |     | map           | queue | 5 cos                  | 6   |     |
| switch(config-queue)# |     | map           | queue | 4 cos                  | 4   |     |
| switch(config-queue)# |     | map           | queue | 3 cos                  | 3   |     |
| switch(config-queue)# |     | map           | queue | 2 cos                  | 2   |     |
| switch(config-queue)# |     | map           | queue | 1 cos                  | 1   |     |
| switch(config-queue)# |     | map           | queue | 0 cos                  | 0   |     |
3. Createascheduleprofilethatservicesqueue7usingstrictpriority(SP),andtheremainingqueues
withminimumbandwidth.Thisscenariodefinesqueue7asstrictandgivesqueues0-6anequal
minimumbandwidth.
| switch(config)#          | qos | schedule-profile |     |       | voip            |     |
| ------------------------ | --- | ---------------- | --- | ----- | --------------- | --- |
| switch(config-schedule)# |     | strict           |     | queue | 7               |     |
| switch(config-schedule)# |     | min-bandwidth    |     |       | queue 6 percent | 10  |
| switch(config-schedule)# |     | min-bandwidth    |     |       | queue 5 percent | 10  |
| switch(config-schedule)# |     | min-bandwidth    |     |       | queue 4 percent | 10  |
| switch(config-schedule)# |     | min-bandwidth    |     |       | queue 3 percent | 10  |
| switch(config-schedule)# |     | min-bandwidth    |     |       | queue 2 percent | 10  |
| switch(config-schedule)# |     | min-bandwidth    |     |       | queue 1 percent | 10  |
| switch(config-schedule)# |     | min-bandwidth    |     |       | queue 0 percent | 10  |
4. Applytheprofilestoallinterfaces.
switch(config)# apply qos queue-profile ef_priority schedule-profile voip
18
AOS-CX10.09QualityofServiceGuide| (4100i,6000,6100SwitchSeries)

5. ConfigureDSCPtrustmodeonallports
| switch(config)# | qos trust | dscp |     |
| --------------- | --------- | ---- | --- |
Configuring rate limiting
Thisscenarioillustrateshowtouseratelimitingtomanagethetrafficfromvariousdevicesconnectedtoa
switch.Thephysicaltopologyofthenetworklookslikethis:
Acertainamountofbroadcasttrafficisnecessarytomaintainhealthynetworkoperation,particularlyfrom
routersandacrossserviceboundaries.Inthisscenario,boththeservicecloudandtherouterconnections
limitthistrafficto1Gbps.Theserverhasasmallerlimit,asitdoesnotrequireasmuchnetworkprotocol
trafficastheservicecloudandrouter.
Amulticastserverneedstobeabletostreammulticasttraffictoclients,soamulticastratelimitmaynotbe
helpful.Acomputer,however,shouldnotbegeneratinglargeamountsofmulticasttraffic(itmaybe
receivingstreams,buttypicallynotsendingthem).Inthisexample,thecomputerisconfiguredwitha
multicastratelimittopreventmalicioustrafficfromtakingupnetworkbandwidth.
Finally,whiletheservicecloudandroutermayneedtosendtrafficforunknownunicastaddressesto
resolveaddressforwarding,theserverandcomputershouldsendverylittleofthistypeoftraffic.Rate
limitingunknownunicasttrafficonthosetwodevicesenforcesthat.
Procedure
1. Configurebroadcastandmulticastratelimitingfortheservicecloudconnection.
switch# config
| switch(config)#    | interface  | 1/1/1     |              |
| ------------------ | ---------- | --------- | ------------ |
| switch(config-if)# | rate-limit | broadcast | 1000000 kbps |
| switch(config-if)# | rate-limit | multicast | 2000000 kbps |
| switch(config-if)# | exit       |           |              |
2. Configurebroadcastratelimitingfortherouterconnection.
| switch(config-if)# | interface  | 1/1/2     |              |
| ------------------ | ---------- | --------- | ------------ |
| switch(config-if)# | rate-limit | broadcast | 1000000 kbps |
switch(config-if)#
exit
QoSconfiguration |19

3. Configurebroadcastratelimitingfortheserverconnection.
|     | switch(config-if)# |     | interface  | 1/1/5     |        |      |
| --- | ------------------ | --- | ---------- | --------- | ------ | ---- |
|     | switch(config-if)# |     | rate-limit | broadcast | 200000 | kbps |
|     | switch(config-if)# |     | exit       |           |        |      |
4. Configurebroadcast,andmulticastratelimitingforthecomputerconnection.
|     | switch(config-if)# |     | interface  | 1/1/10    |      |      |
| --- | ------------------ | --- | ---------- | --------- | ---- | ---- |
|     | switch(config-if)# |     | rate-limit | broadcast | 1000 | kbps |
switch(config-if)#
|             |     |        | rate-limit | multicast | 500 | kbps |
| ----------- | --- | ------ | ---------- | --------- | --- | ---- |
| Configuring |     | egress | queue      | shaping   |     |      |
Thisexampleshowshowtoapplyegressqueueshapingtoaninterface.First,ascheduleprofileiscreated
thathasper-queuebandwidthlimitssetonallqueueswithstrictastheschedulingalgorithm.Next,this
profileisappliedtoaninterfaceorLAG.
ThefollowingexamplecreatesascheduleprofilenamedEQSExample,whichservicesallsevenqueuesusing
strictpriority.Thisprofileconfiguresqueues1,4,and7withabandwidthlimitof10Gbps,20Gbps,and
30Gbpsrespectively.Theprofileisthenappliedtointerface1/1/1.
| switch(config)#          |     | qos schedule-profile |        | EQSExample            |     |          |
| ------------------------ | --- | -------------------- | ------ | --------------------- | --- | -------- |
| switch(config-schedule)# |     |                      | strict | queue 0               |     |          |
| switch(config-schedule)# |     |                      | strict | queue 1 max-bandwidth |     | 10000000 |
| switch(config-schedule)# |     |                      | strict | queue 2               |     |          |
switch(config-schedule)#
|                          |     |           | strict               | queue 3               |            |          |
| ------------------------ | --- | --------- | -------------------- | --------------------- | ---------- | -------- |
| switch(config-schedule)# |     |           | strict               | queue 4 max-bandwidth |            | 20000000 |
| switch(config-schedule)# |     |           | strict               | queue 5               |            |          |
| switch(config-schedule)# |     |           | strict               | queue 6               |            |          |
| switch(config-schedule)# |     |           | strict               | queue 7 max-bandwidth |            | 30000000 |
| switch(config-schedule)# |     |           | exit                 |                       |            |          |
| switch(config)#          |     | interface | 1/1/1                |                       |            |          |
| switch(config-if)#       |     | apply     | qos schedule-profile |                       | EQSExample |          |
| Supporting               |     | Ethernet  | 802.1D               | Class                 | of         | Service  |
IEEE802.1QisthemostcurrentEthernetstandardforClassofService(CoS).Itsupersededanearlier
standard,802.1D,in2005.IEEE802.1Qslightlychangedtheorderingoftheclassesofservicefromits
predecessorIEEE802.1DforCoS2andCoS0:
CoS
CoS802.1D
802.1Q
| 7Network | 7NetworkControl |     |     |     |     |     |
| -------- | --------------- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
Control
| 6   | 6Voice(<10mslatency) |     |     |     |     |     |
| --- | -------------------- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
Internetwork
Control
| 5Voice | 5Video(<100mslatency) |     |     |     |     |     |
| ------ | --------------------- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
20
| AOS-CX10.09QualityofServiceGuide| |     | (4100i,6000,6100SwitchSeries) |     |     |     |     |
| --------------------------------- | --- | ----------------------------- | --- | --- | --- | --- |

CoS
CoS802.1D
802.1Q
(<10ms
latency)
| 4Video | 4ControlledLoad |     |     |     |
| ------ | --------------- | --- | --- | --- |
(<100ms
latency)
| 3Critical | 3ExcellentEffort |     |     |     |
| --------- | ---------------- | --- | --- | --- |
Applications
| 2Excellent | 0BestEffort |     |     |     |
| ---------- | ----------- | --- | --- | --- |
Effort
| 0BestEffort | 2Spare      |     |     |     |
| ----------- | ----------- | --- | --- | --- |
| 1           | 1Background |     |     |     |
Background
In802.1D,bothCoS2andCoS1arebelowCoS0(BestEffort).
Whenaswitchisinstalledinanetworkofdevicesfollowing802.1DClassofService,theQoStoqueue
mappingmustbereconfiguredtofollowthe802.1DstandardbyswappingtheassignmentsofCoS0and2:
1. CreateanewqueueprofilewiththedesiredqueuetoCoSmappingchanges.
2. Applythecreatedqueueprofile,usingtheapply qoscommand.
| switch#               | config      |                   |           |            |
| --------------------- | ----------- | ----------------- | --------- | ---------- |
| switch(config)#       |             | queue-profile     |           | newProfile |
| switch(config-queue)# |             |                   | map queue | 0 cos 1    |
| switch(config-queue)# |             |                   | map queue | 2 cos 0    |
| switch(config-queue)# |             |                   | map queue | 1 cos 2    |
| switch(config-queue)# |             |                   | map queue | 3 cos 3    |
| switch(config-queue)# |             |                   | map queue | 4 cos 4    |
| switch(config-queue)# |             |                   | map queue | 5 cos 5    |
| switch(config-queue)# |             |                   | map queue | 6 cos 6    |
| switch(config-queue)# |             |                   | map queue | 7 cos 7    |
| switch#               | show        | qos queue-profile |           | newProfile |
| queue_num             |             | cos               | name      |            |
| ---------             | ----------- |                   | ----      |            |
| 0                     | 1           |                   |           |            |
| 1                     | 2           |                   |           |            |
| 2                     | 0           |                   |           |            |
| 3                     | 3           |                   |           |            |
| 4                     | 4           |                   |           |            |
| 5                     | 5           |                   |           |            |
| 6                     | 6           |                   |           |            |
| 7                     | 7           |                   |           |            |
| Monitoring            |             | queue             | operation |            |
Usetheshowinterfacequeuescommandtodisplaythetraffictransmittedperqueue,andthenumberof
packetsdroppedduetothequeuebeingfull.(Tx Bytesisavailableonthe6000and6100SwitchSeries.)
Forexample:
QoSconfiguration |21

| switch#   | show         | interface | 1/1/1             | queues      |       |          |     |
| --------- | ------------ | --------- | ----------------- | ----------- | ----- | -------- | --- |
| Interface | 1/1/1        | is        | (Administratively |             | down) |          |     |
| Admin     | state        | is down   |                   |             |       |          |     |
| State     | information: |           | admin_down        |             |       |          |     |
|           | Tx Packets   |           |                   | Tx          | Bytes | Tx Drops |     |
| Q0        |              | 100       |                   |             | 8000  |          | 0   |
| Q1        | 1234567      |           |                   | 12345678908 |       |          | 5   |
| Q2        |              | 0         |                   |             | 0     |          | 0   |
| Q3        |              | 0         |                   |             | 0     |          | 0   |
| Q4        |              | 0         |                   |             | 0     |          | 0   |
| Q5        |              | 0         |                   |             | 0     |          | 0   |
| Q6        |              | 0         |                   |             | 0     |          | 0   |
| Q7        |              | 0         |                   |             | 0     |          | 0   |
Tx Bytes:Totalbytestransmitted.Thebytecountmayincludepacketheadersandinternalmetadatathat
areremovedbeforethepacketistransmitted.Packetheadersaddedwhenthepacketistransmittedmay
notbeincluded.
Tx Packets:Totalpacketstransmitted.
Tx Drops:Thenumberofpacketsdroppedbyaqueuebeforeitwassent.Whentrafficcannotbe
forwardedoutanegressinterface,itbacksupatingress.Themoreservicingassignedtoaqueuebya
scheduleprofile,thelesslikelytrafficdestinedforthatqueuewillbackupandbedropped.TxDropsshows
thesumofpacketsthatweredroppedacrossalllinemodules(duetoinsufficientcapacity)bytheingress
VirtualOutputQueues(VOQs)destinedfortheegressport.
22
AOS-CX10.09QualityofServiceGuide| (4100i,6000,6100SwitchSeries)

Chapter 4

QoS commands

QoS commands

apply qos
apply qos [queue-profile <QUEUE-NAME>] schedule-profile <SCHEDULE-NAME>
no apply qos schedule-profile <SCHEDULE-NAME>

Description

Applies a queue profile and schedule profile globally to all Ethernet and LAG interfaces on the switch, or
applies a schedule profile to a specific interface. When applied globally, the specified schedule profile is
configured only on Ethernet interfaces and LAGs that do not already have their own schedule profile.

The same profile can be applied both globally and locally to an interface. This guarantees that an interface
always uses the specified profile, even if the global profile is changed.

The no form of this command removes the specified schedule profile from an interface and the interface
uses the global schedule profile. This is the only way to remove a schedule profile override from the
interface.

Interfaces may shut down briefly during reconfiguration.

Parameter

Description

queue-profile <QUEUE-NAME>

schedule-profile <SCHEDULE-NAME>

Specifies the name of the queue profile to apply. Range: 1 to 64
alphanumeric characters, including period (.), underscore (_), and
hyphen (-). This parameter is not supported in the config-if
context.

Specifies the name of the schedule profile to apply. Range: 1 to 64
alphanumeric characters, including period (.), underscore (_), and
hyphen (-).

Usage

n The switch must always have a globally-applied queue and schedule profile. To stop using a given profile,

apply a different profile.

n For a queue profile to be complete and ready to be applied, all eight CoS values must be mapped to a

queue.

n For a schedule profile to be complete and ready to be applied, it must define all queues specified in the
queue profile. All queues must use the same algorithm, except for the highest numbered queue, which
can be strict.

n Both the queue profile and the schedule profile must specify the same number of queues.

n Schedule profiles can be modified while applied, but only in ways where a single command will not result
in the profile becoming invalid. For example, queue 7 can have the algorithm changed, and weighted
queues can have their weights changed.

AOS-CX 10.09 Quality of Service Guide | (4100i, 6000, 6100 Switch Series)

23

Queuesmustbeconsecutivelydefinedstartingatqueuenumberzero.Forexample,afour-queueprofile
n
withpriorityvaluesdefinedforqueues0,1,2,3isvalid,butafour-queueprofilewhichdefinespriority
valuesforqueues1,3,5,and7isnot.
n Therecanbeonly2,4,or8queuesinaqueueprofileconfigurationandthequeuesmustbe
consecutivelynumberedstartingatzero.
n Allqueuesmustusethesamealgorithmexceptforthehighestnumberedqueue,whichmaybestrict.
Ifthenumberofqueueswaschangedfromthepreviousqueueprofiletothenewone,anyEthernetorLAG
interfaceswithlocallyappliedscheduleprofileswillprogramthenewlyappliedglobalschedule-profile.The
showrunning-configinterfacecommandwilllisttheexistingapplyqosschedule-profilecommandwitha
commentdescribingtheactualprofileapplied:
Examples
ThefollowingcommandsillustrateavalidconfigurationwhereeveryCoSvalueisassignedtoaqueueandall
assignedqueuesaredefined:
| switch(config)# | qos trust            | cos     |              |
| --------------- | -------------------- | ------- | ------------ |
| switch(config)# | qos queue-profile    |         | Q1           |
| switch(config)# | map queue            | 0 cos 0 |              |
| switch(config)# | map queue            | 1 cos 1 |              |
| switch(config)# | map queue            | 2 cos 2 |              |
| switch(config)# | map queue            | 3 cos 3 |              |
| switch(config)# | map queue            | 4 cos 4 |              |
| switch(config)# | map queue            | 5 cos 5 |              |
| switch(config)# | map queue            | 6 cos 6 |              |
| switch(config)# | map queue            | 7 cos 7 |              |
| switch(config)# | qos schedule-profile |         | S1           |
| switch(config)# | min-bandwidth        | queue   | 0 percent 5  |
| switch(config)# | min-bandwidth        | queue   | 1 percent 5  |
| switch(config)# | min-bandwidth        | queue   | 2 percent 10 |
| switch(config)# | min-bandwidth        | queue   | 3 percent 10 |
| switch(config)# | min-bandwidth        | queue   | 4 percent 20 |
| switch(config)# | min-bandwidth        | queue   | 5 percent 20 |
| switch(config)# | min-bandwidth        | queue   | 6 percent 10 |
| switch(config)# | min-bandwidth        | queue   | 7 percent 20 |
ThefollowingcommandsillustrateaninvalidconfigurationbecauseCoS2isnotassignedtoaqueue:
| switch(config)# | qos trust            | cos     |              |
| --------------- | -------------------- | ------- | ------------ |
| switch(config)# | qos queue-profile    |         | Q1           |
| switch(config)# | map queue            | 0 cos 0 |              |
| switch(config)# | map queue            | 1 cos 1 |              |
| switch(config)# | map queue            | 3 cos 3 |              |
| switch(config)# | map queue            | 4 cos 4 |              |
| switch(config)# | map queue            | 5 cos 5 |              |
| switch(config)# | map queue            | 6 cos 6 |              |
| switch(config)# | map queue            | 7 cos 7 |              |
| switch(config)# | qos schedule-profile |         | S1           |
| switch(config)# | min-bandwidth        | queue   | 0 percent 5  |
| switch(config)# | min-bandwidth        | queue   | 1 percent 5  |
| switch(config)# | min-bandwidth        | queue   | 3 percent 10 |
| switch(config)# | min-bandwidth        | queue   | 4 percent 20 |
| switch(config)# | min-bandwidth        | queue   | 5 percent 20 |
| switch(config)# | min-bandwidth        | queue   | 6 percent 10 |
| switch(config)# | min-bandwidth        | queue   | 7 percent 20 |
QoScommands |24

ApplyingtheQoSprofileQ1andthescheduleprofileS1toallinterfacesthatdonothaveanapplied
interface-specificscheduleprofile:
| switch(config)# |     | apply | qos queue-profile | Q1 schedule-profile | S1  |
| --------------- | --- | ----- | ----------------- | ------------------- | --- |
CommandHistory
| Release        |     |     |     | Modification |     |
| -------------- | --- | --- | --- | ------------ | --- |
| 10.07orearlier |     |     |     | --           |     |
CommandInformation
| Platforms | Commandcontext |     |     | Authority |     |
| --------- | -------------- | --- | --- | --------- | --- |
Allplatforms config Administratorsorlocalusergroupmemberswithexecutionrights
|     | config-if |     |     | forthiscommand. |     |
| --- | --------- | --- | --- | --------------- | --- |
config-lag-if
| map       | queue                |     |                         |     |     |
| --------- | -------------------- | --- | ----------------------- | --- | --- |
| map queue | <QUEUE-NUMBER>       |     | cos <PRIORITY-NUMBER>   |     |     |
| no map    | queue <QUEUE-NUMBER> |     | [cos <PRIORITY-NUMBER>] |     |     |
Description
AssignsaCoSvaluetoaqueueinaqueueprofile.Bydefault,thelargerthequeuenumberthehigherits
priority.AqueuewithoutaCoSvalueassignedtoitisnotusedtostorepackets.Thesamequeuecanbe
assignedmultipleCoSvalues.
Thenoformofthiscommandremovesthespecifiedcosvaluefromaspecificqueue.IfnoCoSvalueis
specified,thenallCoSvaluesareremovedfromthequeue.
| Parameter      |     |     |     | Description                         |     |
| -------------- | --- | --- | --- | ----------------------------------- | --- |
| <QUEUE-NUMBER> |     |     |     | Specifiesthequeuenumber.Range:0to7. |     |
<PRIORITY-NUMBER> SpecifiestheCoSvalue.Range:0to7,where0isthelowest
priorityand7isthehighest.
Usage
Thefollowingcommandsillustrateavalidconfiguration,whereeverylocalpriorityvalueisassignedtoa
queue:
| map | queue 0 local-priority |     | 0   |     |     |
| --- | ---------------------- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| map | queue 1 local-priority |     | 1   |     |     |
| map | queue 1 local-priority |     | 2   |     |     |
| map | queue 3 local-priority |     | 3   |     |     |
| map | queue 4 local-priority |     | 4   |     |     |
| map | queue 5 local-priority |     | 5   |     |     |
| map | queue 5 local-priority |     | 6   |     |     |
| map | queue 5 local-priority |     | 7   |     |     |
25
| AOS-CX10.09QualityofServiceGuide| |     | (4100i,6000,6100SwitchSeries) |     |     |     |
| --------------------------------- | --- | ----------------------------- | --- | --- | --- |

Thefollowingcommandsillustrateaninvalidconfiguration,becauselocalpriority2isnotassignedtoa
queue:
| map queue | 0 local-priority |     | 0   |     |     |
| --------- | ---------------- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| map queue | 1 local-priority |     | 1   |     |     |
| map queue | 2 local-priority |     | 3   |     |     |
| map queue | 3 local-priority |     | 4   |     |     |
| map queue | 4 local-priority |     | 5   |     |     |
| map queue | 5 local-priority |     | 6   |     |     |
| map queue | 5 local-priority |     | 7   |     |     |
Examples
Assigningpriority7toqueue7inprofilemyprofile:
| switch(config)#       |     | qos | queue-profile | myprofile        |     |
| --------------------- | --- | --- | ------------- | ---------------- | --- |
| switch(config-queue)# |     |     | map queue     | 7 local-priority | 7   |
Removingpriority7fromqueue7inprofilemyprofile:
| switch(config)#       |     | qos | queue-profile | myprofile              |     |
| --------------------- | --- | --- | ------------- | ---------------------- | --- |
| switch(config-queue)# |     |     | no map        | queue 7 local-priority | 7   |
CommandHistory
| Release        |     |     |     | Modification |     |
| -------------- | --- | --- | --- | ------------ | --- |
| 10.07orearlier |     |     |     | --           |     |
CommandInformation
| Platforms | Commandcontext |     |     | Authority |     |
| --------- | -------------- | --- | --- | --------- | --- |
Allplatforms config-queue Administratorsorlocalusergroupmemberswithexecutionrights
forthiscommand.
min-bandwidth
| min-bandwidth    | queue | <QUEUE-NUMBER> |                | percent <VALUE> |     |
| ---------------- | ----- | -------------- | -------------- | --------------- | --- |
| no min-bandwidth |       | queue          | <QUEUE-NUMBER> |                 |     |
Description
AssignstheGuaranteedMinimumBandwidth(GMB)algorithmandapercentageofbandwidthtoaqueue.
GMBallocatesavailablebandwidthamongallnon-emptyqueuesinrelationtotheirconfiguredminimum
bandwidth.Non-emptyqueuesareservicedfirstinstrictorderuptotheirminimumbandwidth.Ifthereis
anyremainingbandwidth,theschedulerwillstrictlyserviceanyremainingnon-emptyqueues.
ThenoformofthiscommandonlyclearsthealgorithmforaqueueifGMBhasbeenassigned.
QoScommands |26

| Parameter      |     |     |     | Description                         |     |
| -------------- | --- | --- | --- | ----------------------------------- | --- |
| <QUEUE-NUMBER> |     |     |     | Specifiesthequeuenumber.Range:0to7. |     |
<VALUE> SpecifiesbandwidthpercentageusedforGMBscheduling.Range:
0to100.
Examples
Assigningqueue0ofscheduleprofileS1theGMBschedulingalgorithmwithminimumbandwidthof5
percent:
| switch(config)#          |     | qos schedule-profile |               | S1              |     |
| ------------------------ | --- | -------------------- | ------------- | --------------- | --- |
| switch(config-schedule)# |     |                      | min-bandwidth | queue 0 percent | 5   |
RemovingGMBfromqueue0:
| switch(config)#          |     | qos schedule-profile |                  | s1      |     |
| ------------------------ | --- | -------------------- | ---------------- | ------- | --- |
| switch(config-schedule)# |     |                      | no min-bandwidth | queue 0 |     |
CommandHistory
| Release        |     |     |     | Modification |     |
| -------------- | --- | --- | --- | ------------ | --- |
| 10.07orearlier |     |     |     | --           |     |
CommandInformation
| Platforms | Commandcontext |     |     | Authority |     |
| --------- | -------------- | --- | --- | --------- | --- |
4100i config-schedule-<NAME> Administratorsorlocalusergroupmemberswithexecution
| 6000 |     |     |     | rightsforthiscommand. |     |
| ---- | --- | --- | --- | --------------------- | --- |
6100
| name          | queue          |     |               |     |     |
| ------------- | -------------- | --- | ------------- | --- | --- |
| name queue    | <QUEUE-NUMBER> |     | <DESCRIPTION> |     |     |
| no name queue | <QUEUE-NUMBER> |     |               |     |     |
Description
Assignsadescriptiontoaqueueinaqueueprofile.Thisisforidentificationpurposesandhasnoeffecton
configuration.
Thenoformofthiscommandremovesthedescriptionassociatedwithaqueue.
| Parameter      |     |     |     | Description                         |     |
| -------------- | --- | --- | --- | ----------------------------------- | --- |
| <QUEUE-NUMBER> |     |     |     | Specifiesthequeuenumber.Range:0to7. |     |
<DESCRIPTION> Specifiesaqueuedescriptionforidentificationpurposes.Range:1
to64alphanumericcharacters,includingperiod(.),underscore(_),
andhyphen(-).
27
| AOS-CX10.09QualityofServiceGuide| |     | (4100i,6000,6100SwitchSeries) |     |     |     |
| --------------------------------- | --- | ----------------------------- | --- | --- | --- |

Examples
Assigningthedescriptionpriority-traffictoqueue7:
switch(config)#
|                       |     | qos | queue-profile | myprofile          |
| --------------------- | --- | --- | ------------- | ------------------ |
| switch(config-queue)# |     |     | name queue    | 7 priority-traffic |
Removingthedescriptionfromqueue7:
| switch(config)#       |     | qos | queue-profile | myprofile |
| --------------------- | --- | --- | ------------- | --------- |
| switch(config-queue)# |     |     | no name       | queue 7   |
CommandHistory
| Release        |     |     |     | Modification |
| -------------- | --- | --- | --- | ------------ |
| 10.07orearlier |     |     |     | --           |
CommandInformation
| Platforms | Commandcontext |     |     | Authority |
| --------- | -------------- | --- | --- | --------- |
Allplatforms config-queue Administratorsorlocalusergroupmemberswithexecutionrights
forthiscommand.
qos cos
| qos cos <CODE-POINT> |     |     |     |     |
| -------------------- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
no qos cos
Description
ConfiguresaCoSPCPremarkforanEthernetorLAGinterface.Packetsthatingressontheinterfaceare
remarkedategressusingtheconfiguredCoSPCPvalue.
TheremarkonlyoccurswhenQoStrustmodeontheinterfaceissettonone.
IfQoStrustmodeisnotsettonone,thentheremarkisignored,andthefollowingcommandswillshowthe
CoSremarkstatusasignored (incompatible Port Access Trust configuration)ornot applied'
configuration):
| (incompatible | QoS | global/port | Trust |     |
| ------------- | --- | ----------- | ----- | --- |
n showrunning-configuration
showinterface<PORT-NUM>
n
| n show interface |     | <PORT-NUM> | qos |     |
| ---------------- | --- | ---------- | --- | --- |
ThenoformofthiscommandremovesaCoSremarkonaninterface.
| Parameter |     |     |     | Description |
| --------- | --- | --- | --- | ----------- |
<CODE-POINT> Specifiesan802.1VLANpriorityCoSvalue.Range:0to7.
Examples
ConfiguringaCoSremarkof3oninterface1/1/1:
QoScommands |28

| switch(config)# | interface | 1/1/1 |     |
| --------------- | --------- | ----- | --- |
switch(config-if)#
|                    | qos | trust none |     |
| ------------------ | --- | ---------- | --- |
| switch(config-if)# | qos | cos 3      |     |
DeletingaCoSremarkof3oninterface1/1/1:
| switch(config)#    | interface | 1/1/1 |     |
| ------------------ | --------- | ----- | --- |
| switch(config-if)# | no qos    | cos   |     |
CommandHistory
| Release        |     |     | Modification |
| -------------- | --- | --- | ------------ |
| 10.07orearlier |     |     | --           |
CommandInformation
| Platforms | Commandcontext |     | Authority |
| --------- | -------------- | --- | --------- |
4100i config-if Administratorsorlocalusergroupmemberswithexecutionrights
| 6000 |     |     | forthiscommand. |
| ---- | --- | --- | --------------- |
6100
qos dscp
qos dscp <CODE-POINT>
no qos dscp
Description
Configuresadifferentiatedservicescodepoint(DSCP)remarkforanEthernetorLAGinterface.IPV4and
IPV6packetsthatingressontheinterfaceareremarkedategressusingtheconfiguredDSCPvalue.
TheremarkonlyoccurswhenQoStrustmodeontheinterfaceissettonone.IfaDSCPremarkisconfigured
andthentrustmodeissubsequentlysettocosordscp,thentheDSCPremarkisignored.
Thefollowingcommandswillshowtheremarkstatusasignored(incompatiblePortAccessTrust
configuration)ornotapplied(incompatibleQoSglobalorporttrustconfiguration):
n show running-configuration
| n show interface | <INTERFACE-NAME> |     |     |
| ---------------- | ---------------- | --- | --- |
| show interface   | <INTERFACE-NAME> |     | qos |
n
ThenoformofthiscommandremovesaCoSremarkonaninterface.
| Parameter |     |     | Description |
| --------- | --- | --- | ----------- |
<CODE-POINT> SpecifiesanIPdifferentiatedservicescodepointvalue.Range:0to
63.
Usage
OrderofoperationforarrivingIPv4orIPv6packets:
29
| AOS-CX10.09QualityofServiceGuide| | (4100i,6000,6100SwitchSeries) |     |     |
| --------------------------------- | ----------------------------- | --- | --- |

1. TheCoSmetadataisassignedfromtheDSCPmapentryindexedbytheDSCPremarkvalue.
2. IfaCoSremarkisalsoconfiguredalongwiththeDSCPremark,theCoSremarkvaluewillbeassigned
tothepacket'sCoSmetadata.
3. TheCoSmetadataandqueueprofilearethenusedtodeterminethequeueforthepacket.Ifthe
packetistransmittedwithan802.1QVLANtag,thePCPwillberemarkedtomatchtheCoS
metadata.
Forarrivingnon-IPpackets:
TheCoSmetadataisassignedfromtheDSCPmapentryindexedbytheDSCPremarkvalue.ThisCoSvalue
andthequeueprofileareusedtoselectthequeueforpacketscheduling.ThePCPoftaggednon-IPpackets
willberemarkedtothisCoSvalue.
Examples
ConfiguringaDSCPremarkof43oninterface1/1/1:
| switch(config)#    |     | interface |           | 1/1/1 |     |
| ------------------ | --- | --------- | --------- | ----- | --- |
| switch(config-if)# |     |           | qos trust | none  |     |
| switch(config-if)# |     |           | qos dscp  | 43    |     |
DeletingaDSCPremarkof43oninterface1/1/1:
| switch(config)#    |     | interface |         | 1/1/1 |     |
| ------------------ | --- | --------- | ------- | ----- | --- |
| switch(config-if)# |     |           | no dscp | 43    |     |
CommandHistory
| Release        |     |     |     |     | Modification |
| -------------- | --- | --- | --- | --- | ------------ |
| 10.07orearlier |     |     |     |     | --           |
CommandInformation
| Platforms | Commandcontext |     |     |     | Authority |
| --------- | -------------- | --- | --- | --- | --------- |
4100i config-if Administratorsorlocalusergroupmemberswithexecutionrights
| 6000 | config-lag-if |     |     |     | forthiscommand. |
| ---- | ------------- | --- | --- | --- | --------------- |
6100
qos dscp-map
| qos dscp-map    | <CODE-POINT> |              | cos | <COS-VALUE> | [name <DESCRIPTION>] |
| --------------- | ------------ | ------------ | --- | ----------- | -------------------- |
| no qos dscp-map |              | <CODE-POINT> |     |             |                      |
Description
DefinestheCoSvalueassignedtoincomingpacketsforaspecificIPdifferentiatedservicescodepoint
(DSCP)value.TheDSCPmapvaluesareusedtoprioritizeincomingpacketswhenQoStrustmodeissetto
dscp.
Thenoformofthiscommandrestorestheassignmentsforacodepointtothedefaultsetting.
QoScommands |30

Useshow qos dscp-maptoviewthecurrentsettings.ToseethedefaultDSCPmapsettings,usethe
followingcommand:
| switch# show        | qos dscp-map | default |
| ------------------- | ------------ | ------- |
| DSCP code_point     | cos          | name    |
| -------- ---------- | ---          | ----    |
| 000000 0            | 0            | CS0     |
| 000001 1            | 0            |         |
| 000010 2            | 0            |         |
| 000011 3            | 0            |         |
| 000100 4            | 0            |         |
| 000101 5            | 0            |         |
...
| 101101 45 | 5   |     |
| --------- | --- | --- |
| 101110 46 | 5   |     |
| 101111 47 | 5   |     |
| 110000 48 | 6   | CS6 |
...
| 111100 60 | 7   |     |
| --------- | --- | --- |
| 111101 61 | 7   |     |
| 111110 62 | 7   |     |
| 111111 63 | 7   |     |
Parameter Description
<CODE-POINT> SpecifiesanIPdifferentiatedservicescodepoint.Range:0to63.
Default:0.
cos <COS-VALUE> Specifiesan802.1pVLANpriorityCoSremarkvalue.Range:0to7.
Default0.
cos <PCP-VALUE> Specifiesanoptional802.1pVLANPriorityCodePointremark
value.Range:0to7.Default:Noremark.
name <DESCRIPTION>
SpecifiesadescriptionfortheDSCPsetting.Thenameisusedfor
identificationonly,andhasnoeffectonqueueconfiguration.
Range:1to64alphanumericcharacters,includingperiod(.),
underscore(_),andhyphen(-).
Examples
Settingcodepoint41toaCoSof6:
| switch(config)# | qos dscp-map | 41 cos 6 |
| --------------- | ------------ | -------- |
Settingcodepoint41tothedefaultvalue:
| switch(config)# | no qos | dscp-map 41 |
| --------------- | ------ | ----------- |
CommandHistory
Release Modification
10.07orearlier --
CommandInformation
31
AOS-CX10.09QualityofServiceGuide| (4100i,6000,6100SwitchSeries)

| Platforms | Commandcontext | Authority |
| --------- | -------------- | --------- |
Allplatforms config Administratorsorlocalusergroupmemberswithexecutionrights
forthiscommand.
qos queue-profile
| qos queue-profile    | <NAME> |     |
| -------------------- | ------ | --- |
| no qos queue-profile | <NAME> |     |
Description
CreatesanewQoSqueueprofileandswitchestotheconfig-queuecontextfortheprofile.Or,ifthe
specifiedQoSqueueprofileexists,thiscommandswitchestotheconfig-queuecontextfortheprofile..A
queueprofilemapsqueuestoCoSvalues.Eachprofilehastwo,four,oreightqueuesnumbered0to7.The
largerthequeuenumber,thehigheritspriorityduringtransmissionscheduling.
ThenoformofthiscommandremovesthespecifiedQoSqueueprofile.Onlyprofilesthatarenotcurrently
appliedcanberemoved.
| Parameter |     | Description                                    |
| --------- | --- | ---------------------------------------------- |
| <NAME>    |     | SpecifiesthenameoftheQoSqueueprofiletocreateor |
configure.Range:1to64alphanumericcharacters,including
period(.),underscore(_),andhyphen(-).
Examples
Creatingtheprofilemyprofile:
| switch(config)# | qos queue-profile | myprofile |
| --------------- | ----------------- | --------- |
switch(config-queue)#
Deletingtheprofilemyprofile:
| switch(config)# | no qos queue-profile | myprofile |
| --------------- | -------------------- | --------- |
CommandHistory
| Release        |     | Modification |
| -------------- | --- | ------------ |
| 10.07orearlier |     | --           |
CommandInformation
| Platforms | Commandcontext | Authority |
| --------- | -------------- | --------- |
Allplatforms config Administratorsorlocalusergroupmemberswithexecutionrights
forthiscommand.
qos schedule-profile
QoScommands |32

| qos schedule-profile    | <NAME> |        |
| ----------------------- | ------ | ------ |
| no qos schedule-profile |        | <NAME> |
Description
CreatesaQoSscheduleprofileandswitchestotheconfig-schedulecontextfortheprofile.Ifthespecified
scheduleprofileexists,thiscommandswitchestotheconfig-schedulecontextfortheprofile.Theschedule
profiledeterminestheorderinwhichqueuesareselectedtotransmitapacket,andtheamountofservice
definedforeachqueue.
Parameter Description
<NAME> SpecifiesthenameoftheQoSqueueprofiletocreateor
configure.Range:1to64alphanumericcharacters,including
period(.),underscore(_),andhyphen(-).
Usage
Queuesinascheduleprofilearenumberedconsecutivelystartingfromzero.Queuezeroisthelowest
priorityqueue.Thelargerthequeuenumber,thehigherprioritythequeuehasinschedulingalgorithms.
Aprofilenamedfactory-defaultisdefinedbydefaultandappliedtoallinterfaces.Itcannotbeeditedor
deleted.Toseeitssettings,usethecommand:
switch#
show qos schedule-profile factory-default
| queue_num | algorithm     | percent max-bandwidth_kbps |
| --------- | ------------- | -------------------------- |
| --------- | ------------- | ------- ------------------ |
| 0         | min-bandwidth | 2                          |
| 1         | min-bandwidth | 3                          |
| 2         | min-bandwidth | 30                         |
| 3         | min-bandwidth | 10                         |
| 4         | min-bandwidth | 10                         |
| 5         | min-bandwidth | 10                         |
| 6         | min-bandwidth | 15                         |
| 7         | min-bandwidth | 20                         |
Aprofilenamedstrictispredefinedandcannotbeeditedordeleted.Thestrictprofileservicesallqueuesof
thequeueprofiletowhichitisapplied,usingthestrictpriorityalgorithm.
Ascheduleprofilemustbedefinedonallinterfacesatalltimes.
Therearetwopermittedconfigurationsforascheduleprofile:
1. Allqueuesusethesameschedulingalgorithm(forexample,GMB).
2. Thehighestqueuenumberusesstrictpriority,andallremaining(lower)queuesusethesame
algorithm(forexample,GMB).ThissupportspriorityschedulingbehaviornecessaryfortheIETFRFC
3246ExpeditedForwardingspecification(https://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc3246).
Onlylimitedchangescanbemadetoanappliedscheduleprofile:
ThepercentageofaGMBqueue.
n
Thebandwidthofastrictqueue.
n
ThealgorithmofthehighestnumberedqueuecanbeswappedbetweenGMBandstrict,andviceversa.
n
ApplicabletoREST:Anyotherchangeswillresultinanunusablescheduleprofile,andtheswitchwillrevertto
thefactory-defaultprofileuntiltheprofileiscorrected.
ThenoformofthiscommandremovesthespecifiedQoSscheduleprofilewhenitisnotapplied.Only
profilesthatarenotcurrentlyappliedtoaninterfacecanberemoved.
33
AOS-CX10.09QualityofServiceGuide| (4100i,6000,6100SwitchSeries)

Examples
Creatingthescheduleprofilemyschedule:
switch(config)#
|     |     | qos schedule-profile | myschedule |
| --- | --- | -------------------- | ---------- |
switch(config-schedule)#
Deletingthescheduleprofilemyschedule:
| switch(config)# |     | no qos schedule-profile | myschedule |
| --------------- | --- | ----------------------- | ---------- |
CommandHistory
| Release        |     |     | Modification |
| -------------- | --- | --- | ------------ |
| 10.07orearlier |     |     | --           |
CommandInformation
| Platforms | Commandcontext |     | Authority |
| --------- | -------------- | --- | --------- |
config
Allplatforms Administratorsorlocalusergroupmemberswithexecutionrights
forthiscommand.
qos trust
| qos trust | {none | | cos | dscp} |     |
| --------- | ----- | ------------- | --- |
no qos trust
Description
ConfiguresoneofthreemodesthatareappliedgloballyonallEthernetinterfacesandLAGsthathavenot
appliedtheirowntrustmode.TrustmodedetermineswhetherVLANorIPheadersareusedtoassignCoS
valuestoingresspackets.
Intheconfigcontext:
Thiscommandsetsthetrustmodethatisgloballyappliedtoallinterfacesthatdonothaveatrustmode
n
configured.
Thenoformofthiscommandrestoresallinterfacesthatdonotcurrentlyhaveatrustmodeconfigured
n
tothedefaultsetting.
Intheconfig-ifcontext:
n Thiscommandsetsthetrustmodeoverrideforaspecificinterface.
Thenoformofthiscommandclearsatrustmodeoverride.Theinterfacethenusestheglobalsetting.
n
Thisistheonlywaytoremoveatrustmodeoverride.
| Parameter |     |     | Description                                          |
| --------- | --- | --- | ---------------------------------------------------- |
| none      |     |     | Ignoresallpacketheaders.IngresspacketsareassignedCoS |
QoScommands |34

| Parameter |     |     |     | Description |
| --------- | --- | --- | --- | ----------- |
valuezero.
| cos |     |     |     | For802.1VLAN-taggedpackets,usetheprioritycodepointfield |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | ------------------------------------------------------- |
fromtheoutermostVLANheadertoassigntheCoSvalue.For
untaggedpackets,theCoSvalueisassignedtozero.Default.
dscp
ForIPpackets,usetheDSCPastheindexintotheDSCPMaptable
toobtaintheCoSvalueforthepacket.Fornon-IPpackets,theCoS
valueisassignedtozero.
Example
Settingtheglobaltrustmodetodscp,whichisappliedtoallinterfacesthatdonotalreadyhavean
individualtrustmodeconfigured.Anoverrideisthenappliedtointerface2/2/2,andLAG100,settingtrust
modetocos:
| switch(config)#    |     | qos trust | dscp      |     |
| ------------------ | --- | --------- | --------- | --- |
| switch(config)#    |     | interface | 2/2/2     |     |
| switch(config-if)# |     | qos       | trust cos |     |
| switch(config-if)# |     | interface | lag       | 100 |
| switch(config-if)# |     | qos       | trust cos |     |
WARNING:QoSportremarkconfigurationsarenotappliedwhentheQoStrustmodeismode.Thiswarning
messageisseenifaporttrustcommandotherthantrustnoneisattemptedwhenthereisalreadyaremark
configurationontheport.Torestoretheoldremarkconfiguration,configuretheporttrustmodetonone.
WARNING:QoSportremarkconfigurationsarenotappliedwhentheglobalQoStrustmodeismode.Thiswarning
messageisseenifaportnoqostrustcommandisattemptedwhenthereisalreadyaremarkconfigurationonthe
portandtheglobaltrustmodeisnotnone.Tore-applytheremarkconfiguration,settheporttrustmodetonone.
CommandHistory
| Release        |     |     |     | Modification |
| -------------- | --- | --- | --- | ------------ |
| 10.07orearlier |     |     |     | --           |
CommandInformation
| Platforms | Commandcontext |     |     | Authority |
| --------- | -------------- | --- | --- | --------- |
Allplatforms config Administratorsorlocalusergroupmemberswithexecutionrights
|     | config-if |     |     | forthiscommand. |
| --- | --------- | --- | --- | --------------- |
config-lag-if
rate-limit
35
| AOS-CX10.09QualityofServiceGuide| |     | (4100i,6000,6100SwitchSeries) |     |     |
| --------------------------------- | --- | ----------------------------- | --- | --- |

rate-limit {broadcast | multicast | unknown-unicast | icmp {ip-all | ipv4 | ipv6}} <RATE>
kbps
no rate-limit {broadcast | multicast | unknown-unicast | icmp}

Description

Sets the amount of traffic of a specific type that can ingress on an Ethernet interface, or on each port of a
LAG interface. Rate limits are enforced separately on each individual member of a LAG, not on the LAG as a
whole.

The no form of this command removes the traffic limit for the specified traffic type.

Parameter

{broadcast | multicast | unknown-unicast| icmp {ip-all | ipv4 |ipv6}}

<RATE>

Description

Specifies the type of
ingress traffic to which
the rate limit applies:
broadcast, multicast,
unknown-unicast, or
ICMP.
The multicast rate
limit affects multicast
and broadcast traffic.
The broadcast rate
limit only affects
broadcast traffic.
When both types are
applied to the same
interface, broadcast
packets are limited to
the lower of the two
rate values. Layer 2
BPDU packets, like
spanning tree, are
also included in the
multicast rate limit.
Unknown-unicast
packets may be
intended for devices
whose addresses
have temporarily aged
out of network
forwarding caches.
Configuring rate limits
can help provide
balance between
necessary and flooded
traffic.
The ICMP rate limit
can be configured to
apply to IPv4, IPv6, or
all IP traffic. Only one
ICMP rate-limit can be
configured at a time.
Applying a new ICMP
rate-limit replaces any
previous ICMP rate-
limit.

Specifies the rate
limit. Range: 64 to
100000000 kbps (in

QoS commands | 36

Parameter

Description

steps of 64 kbps). The
actual rate limit varies
with steps
approximately equal
to the minimum value.
Verify the actual rate
limit using the
command show
interface
<INTERFACE-NAME>.

Examples

Limiting broadcast traffic to 1024kbps on interface 1/1/3:

switch(config)# interface 1/1/3
switch(config-if)# rate-limit broadcast 1024 kbps

Limiting all ICMP IPv4 traffic to 10000kbps on interface 1/1/3:

switch(config)# interface 1/1/3
switch(config-if)# rate-limit icmp ipv4 1024 kbps

Viewing the results of the previous configuration settings:

switch# show interface 1/1/3 qos
Interface 1/1/3 is up

Admin state is up
qos trust cos (global)
qos queue-profile factory-default (global)
qos schedule-profile factory-default (global)
rate-limit unknown-unicast 1024 kbps (1024 actual)
rate-limit broadcast 1024 kbps (1100 actual)
rate-limit multicast 1024 kbps (1100 actual)
rate-limit icmp ip-all 1024 kbps (1024 actual)

switch# show interface 1/1/3

Interface 1/1/3 is up

Admin state is up
Link state: up for 3 minutes (since Thu Nov 26 17:56:14 UTC 2020)
Link transitions: 1
Description:
Hardware: Ethernet, MAC Address: f8:60:f0:c9:21:bc
MTU 1500
Type 1GbT
Full-duplex
qos trust cos
rate-limit unknown-unicast 1024 kbps (1024 actual)
rate-limit broadcast 1024 kbps (1100 actual)
rate-limit multicast 1024 kbps (1100 actual)
rate-limit icmp ip-all 1024 kbps (1024 actual)
Speed 1000 Mb/s
Auto-negotiation is on

AOS-CX 10.09 Quality of Service Guide | (4100i, 6000, 6100 Switch Series)

37

| Energy-Efficient |       |         | Ethernet | is disabled |     |     |
| ---------------- | ----- | ------- | -------- | ----------- | --- | --- |
| Flow-control:    |       |         | off      |             |     |     |
| Error-control:   |       |         | off      |             |     |     |
| MDI              | mode: | MDIX    |          |             |     |     |
| VLAN             | Mode: | access  |          |             |     |     |
| Access           |       | VLAN: 1 |          |             |     |     |
Rx
|     |     | 0 total   | packets   |         |     | 0 total bytes |
| --- | --- | --------- | --------- | ------- | --- | ------------- |
|     |     | 0         | unicast   | packets |     |               |
|     |     | 0         | multicast | packets |     |               |
|     |     | 0         | broadcast | packets |     |               |
|     |     | 0 errors  |           |         |     | 0 dropped     |
|     |     | 0 CRC/FCS |           |         |     | 0 pause       |
Tx
|     | 1057962 | total       | packets   |         | 366066962 | total bytes |
| --- | ------- | ----------- | --------- | ------- | --------- | ----------- |
|     |         | 0           | unicast   | packets |           |             |
|     |         | 0           | multicast | packets |           |             |
|     | 1058039 |             | broadcast | packets |           |             |
|     |         | 0 errors    |           |         |           | 0 dropped   |
|     |         | 0 collision |           |         |           | 0 pause     |
CommandHistory
| Release        |     |     |     |     | Modification |     |
| -------------- | --- | --- | --- | --- | ------------ | --- |
| 10.07orearlier |     |     |     |     | --           |     |
CommandInformation
| Platforms |     | Commandcontext |     |     | Authority |     |
| --------- | --- | -------------- | --- | --- | --------- | --- |
4100i config-if Administratorsorlocalusergroupmemberswithexecutionrights
| 6000 |     |     |     |     | forthiscommand. |     |
| ---- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --------------- | --- |
6100
| show           | interface |                  | queues |        |     |     |
| -------------- | --------- | ---------------- | ------ | ------ | --- | --- |
| show interface |           | <INTERFACE-NAME> |        | queues |     |     |
Description
Displaysinterface-levelqueuestatistics.
| Parameter |     |     |     |     | Description |     |
| --------- | --- | --- | --- | --- | ----------- | --- |
<INTERFACE-NAME> SpecifiesthenameofanEthernetportorLAGontheswitch.
Format:member/slot/portorlag number.
Usage
Statisticsinclude:
n Tx Bytes:Totalbytestransmitted.Thebytecountmayincludepacketheadersandinternalmetadata
thatareremovedbeforethepacketistransmitted.Packetheadersaddedwhenthepacketistransmitted
maynotbeincluded.ThebytecountincludesanypacketssubsequentlydroppedbyanegressACL.
QoScommands |38

Tx Packets:Totalpacketstransmitted.Thecountincludespacketssubsequentlydroppedbyanegress
n
ACL.
n Tx Drops:Totalpacketsdroppedbyanegressqueueduetoinsufficientcapacity.
Examples
Showingqueuestatisticsforinterface1/1/5:
| switch#                               | show interface | 1/1/5    | queues   |         |          |     |
| ------------------------------------- | -------------- | -------- | -------- | ------- | -------- | --- |
| Interface                             | 1/1/5          | is down  |          |         |          |     |
| Admin state                           | is up          |          |          |         |          |     |
|                                       |                | Tx Bytes | Tx       | Packets | Tx Drops |     |
| Q0                                    |                | 0        |          | 0       |          | 3   |
| Q1                                    |                | 15356    |          | 73      |          | 0   |
| Q2                                    |                | 0        |          | 0       |          | 0   |
| Q3                                    |                | 0        |          | 0       |          | 0   |
| Q4                                    |                | 0        |          | 0       |          | 0   |
| Q5                                    |                | 0        |          | 0       |          | 0   |
| Q6                                    |                | 0        |          | 0       |          | 0   |
| Q7                                    |                | 0        |          | 0       |          | 0   |
| Showingqueuestatisticsforinterfacelag |                |          |          | 1:      |          |     |
| switch#                               | show interface | lag      | 1 queues |         |          |     |
| Aggregate-name                        | lag1           |          |          |         |          |     |
| Aggregated-interfaces                 |                | :        |          |         |          |     |
| 1/1/6 1/1/7                           |                |          |          |         |          |     |
| Speed 20000                           | Mb/s           |          |          |         |          |     |
|                                       |                | Tx Bytes | Tx       | Packets | Tx Drops |     |
| Q0                                    |                | 0        |          | 0       |          | 0   |
| Q1                                    |                | 0        |          | 0       |          | 0   |
| Q2                                    |                | 0        |          | 0       |          | 0   |
| Q3                                    |                | 0        |          | 0       |          | 0   |
| Q4                                    |                | 0        |          | 0       |          | 0   |
| Q5                                    |                | 0        |          | 0       |          | 0   |
| Q6                                    |                | 0        |          | 0       |          | 0   |
| Q7                                    |                | 3450     |          | 25      |          | 0   |
CommandHistory
| Release        |     |     |     | Modification |     |     |
| -------------- | --- | --- | --- | ------------ | --- | --- |
| 10.07orearlier |     |     |     | --           |     |     |
CommandInformation
| Platforms | Commandcontext |     |     | Authority |     |     |
| --------- | -------------- | --- | --- | --------- | --- | --- |
Allplatforms Operator(>)orManager OperatorsorAdministratorsorlocalusergroupmemberswith
executionrightsforthiscommand.Operatorscanexecutethis
(#)
commandfromtheoperatorcontext(>)only.
| show interface |                  | qos |     |     |     |     |
| -------------- | ---------------- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| show interface | <INTERFACE-NAME> |     | qos |     |     |     |
39
| AOS-CX10.09QualityofServiceGuide| |     | (4100i,6000,6100SwitchSeries) |     |     |     |     |
| --------------------------------- | --- | ----------------------------- | --- | --- | --- | --- |

Description
ShowsvariousQoSsettingsforaspecificinterface.
| Parameter |     |     | Description |
| --------- | --- | --- | ----------- |
<INTERFACE-NAME> Specifiesthenameofaninterfaceontheswitch.Format:
member/slot/portorlag number.
Examples
ShowingQoSsettingsforinterface1/1/5:
| switch#              | show interface | 1/1/5           | qos                 |
| -------------------- | -------------- | --------------- | ------------------- |
| Interface            | 1/1/5          | is up           |                     |
| Admin state          | is             | up              |                     |
| qos trust            | cos (global)   |                 |                     |
| qos queue-profile    |                | factory-default | (global)            |
| qos schedule-profile |                | factory-default | (global)            |
| qos cos              | 5              |                 |                     |
| qos dscp             | 47             |                 |                     |
| rate-limit           | broadcast      | 40000 kbps      | (40000 actual)      |
| rate-limit           | icmp           | ip-all 10000    | kbps (10000 actual) |
CommandHistory
| Release        |     |     | Modification |
| -------------- | --- | --- | ------------ |
| 10.07orearlier |     |     | --           |
CommandInformation
| Platforms | Commandcontext |     | Authority |
| --------- | -------------- | --- | --------- |
Allplatforms Operator(>)orManager OperatorsorAdministratorsorlocalusergroupmemberswith
|     | (#) |     | executionrightsforthiscommand.Operatorscanexecutethis |
| --- | --- | --- | ----------------------------------------------------- |
commandfromtheoperatorcontext(>)only.
| show qos          | dscp-map |           |     |
| ----------------- | -------- | --------- | --- |
| show qos dscp-map |          | [default] |     |
Description
DisplaysthecurrentordefaultglobalQoSdscp-map.
| Parameter |     |     | Description                                  |
| --------- | --- | --- | -------------------------------------------- |
| default   |     |     | ShowsthefactorydefaultDSCPcodepointsettings. |
Examples
ShowingthecurrentQoSDSCPmap:
QoScommands |40

| switch#  | show qos dscp-map |      |
| -------- | ----------------- | ---- |
| DSCP     | code_point cos    | name |
| -------- | ---------- ---    | ---- |
| 000000   | 0 0               | CS0  |
| 000001   | 1 0               |      |
| 000010   | 2 0               |      |
| 000011   | 3 0               |      |
| 000100   | 4 0               |      |
| 000101   | 5 0               |      |
...
| 101101 | 45 5 |     |
| ------ | ---- | --- |
| 101110 | 46 6 | new |
| 101111 | 47 5 |     |
| 110000 | 48 6 | CS6 |
...
| 111101 | 61 7 |     |
| ------ | ---- | --- |
| 111110 | 62 7 |     |
| 111111 | 63 7 |     |
ShowingthedefaultQoSDSCPmap:
| switch#  | show qos dscp-map | default |
| -------- | ----------------- | ------- |
| DSCP     | code_point cos    | name    |
| -------- | ---------- ---    | ----    |
| 000000   | 0 0               | CS0     |
| 000001   | 1 0               |         |
| 000010   | 2 0               |         |
| 000011   | 3 0               |         |
| 000100   | 4 0               |         |
| 000101   | 5 0               |         |
...
| 101101 | 45 5 |     |
| ------ | ---- | --- |
| 101110 | 46 5 |     |
| 101111 | 47 5 |     |
| 110000 | 48 6 | CS6 |
...
| 111100 | 60 7 |     |
| ------ | ---- | --- |
| 111101 | 61 7 |     |
| 111110 | 62 7 |     |
| 111111 | 63 7 |     |
CommandHistory
Release Modification
10.07orearlier --
CommandInformation
| Platforms | Commandcontext | Authority |
| --------- | -------------- | --------- |
Allplatforms Operator(>)orManager OperatorsorAdministratorsorlocalusergroupmemberswith
(#) executionrightsforthiscommand.Operatorscanexecutethis
commandfromtheoperatorcontext(>)only.
| show qos | queue-profile |     |
| -------- | ------------- | --- |
41
| AOS-CX10.09QualityofServiceGuide| | (4100i,6000,6100SwitchSeries) |     |
| --------------------------------- | ----------------------------- | --- |

| show qos queue-profile |     | [<NAME> | | factory-default] |
| ---------------------- | --- | ------- | ------------------ |
Description
Showsthestatusofallqueueprofiles,oraspecificqueueprofile.
| Parameter |     |     | Description |
| --------- | --- | --- | ----------- |
<NAME> Specifiesthenameofaqueueprofile.Range1to64alphanumeric
characters,includingperiod(.),underscore(_),andhyphen(-).
| [factory-default] |     |     | Specifiesthefactorydefaultqueueprofile. |
| ----------------- | --- | --- | --------------------------------------- |
Usage
Thestatusofaqueueprofilecanbe:
Applied-Theprofileisactivelybeingusedbytheswitch.
n
Complete-Theprofilemeetsthecriteriatobeapplied.
n
n Incomplete-Theprofiledoesnotmeetthecriteriatobeapplied.
Foraqueueprofiletobecompleteandreadytobeapplied:
n Alleightcosvaluesmustbemappedtosomequeue.
n Therecanbeonly2,4,or8queues.
n Thequeuesmustbeconsecutivelynumberedstartingatzero.
Examples
Showingthesettingsofthefactorydefaultqueueprofile:
| switch#   | show qos | queue-profile | factory-default |
| --------- | -------- | ------------- | --------------- |
| queue_num | cos name |               |                 |
| --------- | --- ---- |               |                 |
| 0         | 1        |               |                 |
| 1         | 0        |               |                 |
| 2         | 2        |               |                 |
| 3         | 3        |               |                 |
| 4         | 4        |               |                 |
| 5         | 5        |               |                 |
| 6         | 6        |               |                 |
| 7         | 7        |               |                 |
CommandHistory
| Release        |     |     | Modification |
| -------------- | --- | --- | ------------ |
| 10.07orearlier |     |     | --           |
CommandInformation
| Platforms | Commandcontext |     | Authority |
| --------- | -------------- | --- | --------- |
Allplatforms Operator(>)orManager OperatorsorAdministratorsorlocalusergroupmemberswith
|     | (#) |     | executionrightsforthiscommand.Operatorscanexecutethis |
| --- | --- | --- | ----------------------------------------------------- |
commandfromtheoperatorcontext(>)only.
QoScommands |42

| show qos                  | schedule-profile |         |                   |           |
| ------------------------- | ---------------- | ------- | ----------------- | --------- |
| show qos schedule-profile |                  | [<NAME> | | factory-default | | strict] |
Description
Showsthestatusofallscheduleprofiles,oraspecificscheduleprofile.
| Parameter |     |     | Description                                           |     |
| --------- | --- | --- | ----------------------------------------------------- | --- |
| <NAME>    |     |     | Specifiesthenameofaqueueorscheduleprofile.Range:1to64 |     |
alphanumericcharacters,includingperiod(.),underscore(_),and
hyphen(-).
| [factory-default] |     |     | Specifiesthefactorydefaultqueueprofile. |     |
| ----------------- | --- | --- | --------------------------------------- | --- |
Usage
Thestatusofascheduleprofilecanbe:
n Applied-Theprofileisactivelybeingusedbyoneormoreports.
n Complete-Theprofilemeetsthecriteriatobeapplied.
n Incomplete-Theprofiledoesnotmeetthecriteriatobeapplied.
Forascheduleprofiletobecompleteandreadytobeapplieditmusthave:
n Analgorithmforeachqueuedefinedbytheappliedqueueprofile.
Allqueuesmustusethesamealgorithmexceptforthehighestnumberedqueue,whichmaybestrict.
n
Example
Showingthestatusofallscheduleprofiles:
| switch#        | show qos schedule-profile |     |     |     |
| -------------- | ------------------------- | --- | --- | --- |
| profile_status | profile_name              |     |     |     |
| -------------- | ------------              |     |     |     |
| applied        | myschedule                |     |     |     |
| complete       | factory-default           |     |     |     |
| complete       | Test                      |     |     |     |
Showingtheconfigurationoffactorydefaultscheduleprofile:
| switch#   | show qos schedule-profile |         | factory-default    |     |
| --------- | ------------------------- | ------- | ------------------ | --- |
| queue_num | algorithm                 | percent | max-bandwidth_kbps |     |
| --------- | -------------             | ------- | ------------------ |     |
| 0         | min-bandwidth             | 2       |                    |     |
| 1         | min-bandwidth             | 3       |                    |     |
| 2         | min-bandwidth             | 30      |                    |     |
| 3         | min-bandwidth             | 10      |                    |     |
| 4         | min-bandwidth             | 10      |                    |     |
| 5         | min-bandwidth             | 10      |                    |     |
| 6         | min-bandwidth             | 15      |                    |     |
| 7         | min-bandwidth             | 20      |                    |     |
CommandHistory
43
| AOS-CX10.09QualityofServiceGuide| |     | (4100i,6000,6100SwitchSeries) |     |     |
| --------------------------------- | --- | ----------------------------- | --- | --- |

| Release        |     |     | Modification |
| -------------- | --- | --- | ------------ |
| 10.07orearlier |     |     | --           |
CommandInformation
| Platforms | Commandcontext |     | Authority |
| --------- | -------------- | --- | --------- |
Allplatforms Operator(>)orManager OperatorsorAdministratorsorlocalusergroupmemberswith
executionrightsforthiscommand.Operatorscanexecutethis
(#)
commandfromtheoperatorcontext(>)only.
| show qos       | trust     |     |     |
| -------------- | --------- | --- | --- |
| show qos trust | [default] |     |     |
Description
ShowstheglobalQoStrustsettings,orthefactorydefaultsettings.
| Parameter |     |     | Description |
| --------- | --- | --- | ----------- |
default
ShowsthefactorydefaultQoStrustsettings.
Examples
ShowingthecurrentQoStrustsettings:
| switch#   | show qos trust |     |     |
| --------- | -------------- | --- | --- |
| qos trust | cos            |     |     |
ShowingthedefaultQoStrustsettings:
| switch#   | show qos trust | default |     |
| --------- | -------------- | ------- | --- |
| qos trust | cos            |         |     |
CommandHistory
| Release        |     |     | Modification |
| -------------- | --- | --- | ------------ |
| 10.07orearlier |     |     | --           |
CommandInformation
| Platforms | Commandcontext |     | Authority |
| --------- | -------------- | --- | --------- |
Allplatforms Operator(>)orManager OperatorsorAdministratorsorlocalusergroupmemberswith
executionrightsforthiscommand.Operatorscanexecutethis
(#)
commandfromtheoperatorcontext(>)only.
QoScommands |44

| strict queue |                      |                 |               |
| ------------ | -------------------- | --------------- | ------------- |
| strict queue | <QUEUE-NUMBER>       | [[max-bandwidth | <BANDWIDTH>]] |
| no strict    | queue <QUEUE-NUMBER> |                 |               |
Description
Assignsthestrictpriorityalgorithmtoaqueue.Strictpriorityservicesallpacketswaitinginaqueue,before
servicingthepacketsinlowerpriorityqueues.
Egressqueueshapingcanbeconfiguredusingthemax-bandwidthoptiontolimittheamountoftraffic
transmittedperoutputqueue.Thebufferassociatedwitheachegressqueuestorestheexcesstrafficto
smooththeoutputrate.Sustainedratesoftrafficabovethemaximumbandwidthwilleventuallyfillthe
outputqueuecausingtaildrops.Usethecommandshow interfacetodetermineifanytaildroperrors
haveoccurred.
Thenoformofthiscommandremovesthequeueconfigurationfromthescheduleprofile.Toremoveonly
egressqueueshaping,re-enterthestrictqueuecommandwithoutthemax-bandwidthparameter.
| Parameter |     |     | Description |
| --------- | --- | --- | ----------- |
<QUEUE-NUMBER>
Specifiesthenumberofthequeue.Range:0to7.
max-bandwidth <BANDWIDTH> SpecifiesthemaximumbandwidthallowedonthequeueinKbps.
Range:468to100000000.
Usage
Eitherallthequeuesofthescheduleprofilecanbestrictorjustthehighestnumberedqueue.Whenapplied
toaLAG,eachmemberEthernetportindependentlyschedulesitsegresstransmissionsusingthestrict
settings.Onlylimitedchangescanbemadetoastrictqueuethatispartofanappliedscheduleprofile:
n Themax-bandwidthsettings.
Thehighestnumberedqueuecanbeswappedbetweenstrictandmin-bandwith
n
Anyotherchangesorremovingaqueue(no strict queue)willresultinanunusablescheduleprofile.Ifthat
scheduleprofileisappliedintheinterfacecontext,theswitchwillreverttothescheduleprofileappliedinthe
globalcontextuntiltheprofileiscorrected.Ifthatscheduleprofileisappliedintheglobalcontext,theswitch
willreverttousingthefactory-defaultprofileuntiltheprofileiscorrected.
Examples
Assigningstrictprioritytoqueue7inthescheduleprofilemyschedule:
| switch(config)#          | qos schedule-profile |        | myschedule |
| ------------------------ | -------------------- | ------ | ---------- |
| switch(config-schedule)# |                      | strict | queue 7    |
Deletingstrictpriorityfromqueue7inthescheduleprofilemyschedule:
| switch(config)#          | qos schedule-profile |           | myschedule |
| ------------------------ | -------------------- | --------- | ---------- |
| switch(config-schedule)# |                      | no strict | queue 7    |
Assigningstrictprioritytoqueue7inthescheduleprofilemyschedulewithamaximumbandwidthof
10000Kbps:
45
| AOS-CX10.09QualityofServiceGuide| | (4100i,6000,6100SwitchSeries) |     |     |
| --------------------------------- | ----------------------------- | --- | --- |

| switch(config)# | qos schedule-profile | myschedule |
| --------------- | -------------------- | ---------- |
switch(config-schedule)# strict
queue 7 max-bandwith 10000
CommandHistory
| Release        |     | Modification |
| -------------- | --- | ------------ |
| 10.07orearlier |     | --           |
CommandInformation
| Platforms | Commandcontext | Authority |
| --------- | -------------- | --------- |
Allplatforms config-schedule-<NAME> Administratorsorlocalusergroupmemberswithexecution
rightsforthiscommand.
QoScommands |46

Support and Other Resources

Chapter 5

Support and Other Resources

Accessing Aruba Support

Aruba Support Services

https://www.arubanetworks.com/support-services/

Aruba Support Portal

https://asp.arubanetworks.com/

North America telephone

1-800-943-4526 (US & Canada Toll-Free Number)

+1-408-754-1200 (Primary - Toll Number)

+1-650-385-6582 (Backup - Toll Number - Use only when all other
numbers are not working)

International telephone

https://www.arubanetworks.com/support-services/contact-
support/

Be sure to collect the following information before contacting Support:

n Technical support registration number (if applicable)

n Product name, model or version, and serial number

n Operating system name and version

n Firmware version

n Error messages

n Product-specific reports and logs

n Add-on products or components

n Third-party products or components

Other useful sites

Other websites that can be used to find information:

https://community.arubanetworks.com/

https://www.arubanetworks.com/techdocs/AOS-CX/help_portal/Content/home.htm

https://www.arubanetworks.com/techdocs/hardware/DocumentationPortal/Content/home.htm

Airheads social
forums and
Knowledge
Base

AOS-CX Switch
Software
Documentation
Portal

Aruba
Hardware
Documentation
and
Translations

AOS-CX 10.09 Quality of Service Guide | (4100i, 6000, 6100 Switch Series)

47

Portal

Aruba software

https://asp.arubanetworks.com/downloads

Software
licensing

End-of-Life
information

Aruba
Developer Hub

https://lms.arubanetworks.com/

https://www.arubanetworks.com/support-services/end-of-life/

https://developer.arubanetworks.com/

Accessing Updates
You can access updates from the Aruba Support Portal or the HPE My Networking Website.

Aruba Support Portal

https://asp.arubanetworks.com/downloads

If you are unable to find your product in the Aruba Support Portal, you may need to search My Networking,
where older networking products can be found:

My Networking

https://www.hpe.com/networking/support

To view and update your entitlements, and to link your contracts and warranties with your profile, go to the
Hewlett Packard Enterprise Support Center More Information on Access to Support Materials page:

https://support.hpe.com/portal/site/hpsc/aae/home/

Access to some updates might require product entitlement when accessed through the Hewlett Packard
Enterprise Support Center. You must have an HP Passport set up with relevant entitlements.

Some software products provide a mechanism for accessing software updates through the product
interface. Review your product documentation to identify the recommended software update method.

To subscribe to eNewsletters and alerts:

https://asp.arubanetworks.com/notifications/subscriptions (requires an active Aruba Support Portal (ASP)
account to manage subscriptions). Security notices are viewable without an ASP account.

Warranty Information
To view warranty information for your product, go to https://www.arubanetworks.com/support-
services/product-warranties/.

Regulatory Information
To view the regulatory information for your product, view the Safety and Compliance Information for Server,
Storage, Power, Networking, and Rack Products, available at https://www.hpe.com/support/Safety-
Compliance-EnterpriseProducts

Additional regulatory information

Support and Other Resources | 48

Aruba is committed to providing our customers with information about the chemical substances in our
products as needed to comply with legal requirements, environmental data (company programs, product
recycling, energy efficiency), and safety information and compliance data, (RoHS and WEEE). For more
information, see https://www.arubanetworks.com/company/about-us/environmental-citizenship/.

Documentation Feedback
Aruba is committed to providing documentation that meets your needs. To help us improve the
documentation, send any errors, suggestions, or comments to Documentation Feedback (docsfeedback-
switching@hpe.com). When submitting your feedback, include the document title, part number, edition,
and publication date located on the front cover of the document. For online help content, include the
product name, product version, help edition, and publication date located on the legal notices page.

AOS-CX 10.09 Quality of Service Guide | (4100i, 6000, 6100 Switch Series)

49