AOS-CX 10.13 Quality of
Service Guide

4100i, 6000, 6100 Switch Series

Published: November 2023

Version: 1

Copyright Information

© Copyright 2024 Hewlett Packard Enterprise Development LP.

This product includes code licensed under certain open source licenses which require source
compliance. The corresponding source for these components is available upon request. This offer is
valid to anyone in receipt of this information and shall expire three years following the date of the final
distribution of this product version by Hewlett Packard Enterprise Company. To obtain such source
code, please check if the code is available in the HPE Software Center at
https://myenterpriselicense.hpe.com/cwp-ui/software but, if not, send a written request for specific
software version and product for which you want the open source code. Along with the request, please
send a check or money order in the amount of US $10.00 to:

Hewlett Packard Enterprise Company
Attn: General Counsel
WW Corporate Headquarters
1701 E Mossy Oaks Rd Spring, TX 77389
United States of America.

| 2

Notices

The information contained herein is subject to change without notice. The only warranties for Hewlett
Packard Enterprise products and services are set forth in the express warranty statements
accompanying such products and services. Nothing herein should be construed as constituting an
additional warranty. Hewlett Packard Enterprise shall not be liable for technical or editorial errors or
omissions contained herein.

Confidential computer software. Valid license from Hewlett Packard Enterprise required for possession,
use, or copying. Consistent with FAR 12.211 and 12.212, Commercial Computer Software, Computer
Software Documentation, and Technical Data for Commercial Items are licensed to the U.S. Government
under vendor's standard commercial license.

Links to third-party websites take you outside the Hewlett Packard Enterprise website. Hewlett Packard
Enterprise has no control over and is not responsible for information outside the Hewlett Packard
Enterprise website.

Acknowledgments

Intel®, Itanium®, Optane™, Pentium®, Xeon®, Intel Inside®, and the Intel Inside logo are trademarks of
Intel Corporation in the U.S. and other countries.

Microsoft® and Windows® are either registered trademarks or trademarks of Microsoft Corporation in
the United States and/or other countries.

Adobe® and Acrobat® are trademarks of Adobe Systems Incorporated.

Java® and Oracle® are registered trademarks of Oracle and/or its affiliates.

UNIX® is a registered trademark of The Open Group.

All third-party marks are property of their respective owners.

AOS-CX 10.13 Quality of Service Guide | (4100i, 6000, 6100 Switch Series)

3

Contents
| About this                                   | document               | 7   |
| -------------------------------------------- | ---------------------- | --- |
| Applicableproducts                           |                        | 7   |
| Latestversionavailableonline                 |                        | 7   |
| Commandsyntaxnotationconventions             |                        | 7   |
| Abouttheexamples                             |                        | 8   |
| Identifyingswitchportsandinterfaces          |                        | 8   |
| QoS overview                                 |                        | 10  |
| End-to-endQoSbehavior                        |                        | 10  |
|                                              | Besteffortservice      | 10  |
|                                              | ClassofService         | 10  |
|                                              | Differentiatedservices | 11  |
| QoSontheswitch                               |                        | 12  |
|                                              | QoStrust               | 14  |
|                                              | DynamicQoStrustmode    | 15  |
|                                              | Portratelimiting       | 15  |
|                                              | Queueprofiles          | 16  |
|                                              | Scheduleprofiles       | 16  |
|                                              | Egressqueueshaping     | 17  |
|                                              | Terms                  | 17  |
| QoS configuration                            |                        | 19  |
| ConfiguringQoS                               |                        | 19  |
| ConfiguringexpeditedforwardingforVoIPtraffic |                        | 20  |
| Configuringratelimiting                      |                        | 22  |
| Configuringegressqueueshaping                |                        | 23  |
| Configuringthresholdprofiles                 |                        | 24  |
| SupportingEthernet802.1DClassofService       |                        | 24  |
| Monitoringqueueoperation                     |                        | 25  |
| QoS commands                                 |                        | 27  |
| applyqos                                     |                        | 27  |
| mapqueue                                     |                        | 29  |
| min-bandwidth                                |                        | 30  |
| namequeue                                    |                        | 31  |
| qoscos                                       |                        | 32  |
| qosdscp                                      |                        | 33  |
| qosdscp-map                                  |                        | 34  |
| qosqueue-profile                             |                        | 36  |
| qosschedule-profile                          |                        | 37  |
| qosthreshold-profile                         |                        | 39  |
| qostrust                                     |                        | 40  |
| queueaction                                  |                        | 42  |
| rate-limit                                   |                        | 43  |
| showinterfacequeues                          |                        | 46  |
| showinterfaceqos                             |                        | 47  |
| showqosdscp-map                              |                        | 49  |
| showqosqueue-profile                         |                        | 50  |
| showqosschedule-profile                      |                        | 51  |
5
AOS-CX10.13QualityofServiceGuide| (4100i,6000,6100SwitchSeries)

| showqosthreshold-profile |                    |           | 52  |
| ------------------------ | ------------------ | --------- | --- |
| showqostrust             |                    |           | 53  |
| strictqueue              |                    |           | 54  |
| Support                  | and Other          | Resources | 57  |
| AccessingArubaSupport    |                    |           | 57  |
| AccessingUpdates         |                    |           | 58  |
|                          | ArubaSupportPortal |           | 58  |
|                          | MyNetworking       |           | 58  |
| WarrantyInformation      |                    |           | 58  |
| RegulatoryInformation    |                    |           | 58  |
| DocumentationFeedback    |                    |           | 59  |
|6

Chapter 1

About this document

About this document

This document describes features of the AOS-CX network operating system. It is intended for
administrators responsible for installing, configuring, and managing Aruba switches on a network.

Applicable products

This document applies to the following products:

n Aruba 4100i Switch Series (JL817A, JL818A)

n Aruba 6000 Switch Series (R8N85A, R8N86A, R8N87A, R8N88A, R8N89A, R9Y03A)

n Aruba 6100 Switch Series (JL675A, JL676A, JL677A, JL678A, JL679A)

Latest version available online

Updates to this document can occur after initial publication. For the latest versions of product
documentation, see the links provided in Support and Other Resources.

Command syntax notation conventions

Convention

example-text

Usage

Identifies commands and their options and operands, code examples,
filenames, pathnames, and output displayed in a command window. Items
that appear like the example text in the previous column are to be entered
exactly as shown and are required unless enclosed in brackets ([ ]).

example-text

In code and screen examples, indicates text entered by a user.

Any of the following:
n <example-text>
n <example-text>
n example-text

n example-text

|

Identifies a placeholder—such as a parameter or a variable—that you must
substitute with an actual value in a command or in code:

n For output formats where italic text cannot be displayed, variables
are enclosed in angle brackets (< >). Substitute the text—including
the enclosing angle brackets—with an actual value.

n For output formats where italic text can be displayed, variables

might or might not be enclosed in angle brackets. Substitute the
text including the enclosing angle brackets, if any, with an actual
value.

Vertical bar. A logical OR that separates multiple items from which you can
choose only one.
Any spaces that are on either side of the vertical bar are included for
readability and are not a required part of the command syntax.

AOS-CX 10.13 Quality of Service Guide | (4100i, 6000, 6100 Switch Series)

7

| Convention |     | Usage |     |
| ---------- | --- | ----- | --- |
{ } Braces.Indicatesthatatleastoneoftheencloseditemsisrequired.
| [ ] |     | Brackets.Indicatesthattheencloseditemoritemsareoptional. |     |
| --- | --- | -------------------------------------------------------- | --- |
| …or |     | Ellipsis:                                                |     |
... n Incodeandscreenexamples,averticalorhorizontalellipsisindicatesan
omissionofinformation.
n Insyntaxusingbracketsandbraces,anellipsisindicatesitemsthatcanbe
repeated.Whenanitemfollowedbyellipsesisenclosedinbrackets,zero
ormoreitemscanbespecified.
| About the | examples |     |     |
| --------- | -------- | --- | --- |
Examplesinthisdocumentarerepresentativeandmightnotmatchyourparticularswitchor
environment.
Theslotandportnumbersinthisdocumentareforillustrationonlyandmightbeunavailableonyour
switch.
| Understanding | the CLI prompts |     |     |
| ------------- | --------------- | --- | --- |
Whenillustratingthepromptsinthecommandlineinterface(CLI),thisdocumentusesthegenericterm
switch,insteadofthehostnameoftheswitch.Forexample:
switch>
TheCLIpromptindicatesthecurrentcommandcontext.Forexample:
switch>
Indicatestheoperatorcommandcontext.
switch#
Indicatesthemanagercommandcontext.
switch(CONTEXT-NAME)#
Indicatestheconfigurationcontextforafeature.Forexample:
switch(config-if)#
Identifiestheinterfacecontext.
| Variable information | in  | CLI prompts |     |
| -------------------- | --- | ----------- | --- |
Incertainconfigurationcontexts,thepromptmayincludevariableinformation.Forexample,whenin
theVLANconfigurationcontext,aVLANnumberappearsintheprompt:
switch(config-vlan-100)#
Whenreferringtothiscontext,thisdocumentusesthesyntax:
switch(config-vlan-<VLAN-ID>)#
Where<VLAN-ID>isavariablerepresentingtheVLANnumber.
| Identifying | switch | ports and | interfaces |
| ----------- | ------ | --------- | ---------- |
Physicalportsontheswitchandtheircorrespondinglogicalsoftwareinterfacesareidentifiedusingthe
format:
member/slot/port
| On the 4100i | Switch Series |     |     |
| ------------ | ------------- | --- | --- |
Aboutthisdocument|8

n member: Always 1. VSF is not supported on this switch.

n slot: Always 1. This is not a modular switch, so there are no slots.

n port: Physical number of a port on the switch.

For example, the logical interface 1/1/4 in software is associated with physical port 4 on the switch.

On the 6000 and 6100 Switch Series

n member: Always 1. VSF is not supported on this switch.

n slot: Always 1. This is not a modular switch, so there are no slots.

n port: Physical number of a port on the switch.

For example, the logical interface 1/1/4 in software is associated with physical port 4 on the switch.

AOS-CX 10.13 Quality of Service Guide | (4100i, 6000, 6100 Switch Series)

9

Chapter 2
QoS overview
QoS overview
QualityofService(QoS)enablesnetworkadministratorstocustomizehowdifferenttypesoftrafficare
servicedonanetwork,takingintoaccounttheuniquecharacteristicsofeachtraffictypeandits
importancewithinanorganization'sinfrastructure.QoSensuresuniformandefficienttraffichandling,
keepingthemostimportanttrafficmovingatanacceptablespeed,regardlessofcurrentbandwidth
usage.Italsoprovidesmethodsforadministratorstocontroltheprioritysettingsofinboundtraffic
arrivingateachnetworkdevice.
| End-to-end | QoS behavior |     |
| ---------- | ------------ | --- |
TheQoSsettingsoneachnetworkdevicemustbealignedtoachievethedesiredend-to-endQoS
behaviorforanetwork.Threeservicetypescanbeusedtocategorizeandprioritizenetworktraffic:
BestEffortService
n
n EthernetClassofService(CoS)
n InternetDifferentiatedServices(DiffServ)
Foranetworkasawhole,itisbesttoselectoneservicetypetouseastheprimaryend-to-endbehavior,
andthenusetheothertwoservicetypesasneeded.
| Best effort | service |     |
| ----------- | ------- | --- |
Thisisthesimplestservicetype.Alltrafficistreatedequallyinafirst-come,first-servedmanner.Ifthe
trafficloadislowinrelationtothecapacityofthenetworklinks,thenthereisnoneedforthe
administrativecomplexityandcostsofmaintainingamorecomplexend-to-endpolicy.Thisis
sometimescalledover-provisioning,asalllinkspeedsaremuchhigherthanpeakloadsonthenetwork.
| Class of | Service |     |
| -------- | ------- | --- |
ClassofService(CoS)isamethodforclassifyingnetworktrafficatlayer2bymarking802.1QVLAN
Ethernetframeswithoneofeightserviceclasses.
Example
| CoS | Traffic type |     |
| --- | ------------ | --- |
protocols
| 7   | NetworkControl       | STP,PVST     |
| --- | -------------------- | ------------ |
| 6   | InternetworkControl  | BGP,OSPF,PIM |
| 5   | Voice(<10mslatency)  | VoIP(UDP)    |
| 4   | Video(<100mslatency) | RTP          |
| 3   | CriticalApplications | SQLRPC,SNMP  |
10
AOS-CX10.13QualityofServiceGuide|(4100i,6000,6100SwitchSeries)

Example
| CoS | Traffic type |     |     |     |     |     |
| --- | ------------ | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
protocols
| 2   | ExcellentEffort |     |     | NFS,SMB     |     |     |
| --- | --------------- | --- | --- | ----------- | --- | --- |
| 0   | BestEffort      |     |     | HTTP,TELNET |     |     |
| 1   | Background      |     |     | SMTP,IMAP   |     |     |
CoS1isdeliberatelysetasthelowestCoS.Thisenablesatrafficservicelevelbelowthedefault(best
effort)trafficleveltobespecified.
The3-bitPriorityCodePoint(PCP)fieldwithinthe16-bitEthernetVLANtagisusedtomarktheCoS.
+--------+--------+--------+----------+-----------+--------
| | mac-da | | mac-sa | | 0x8100 | VLAN | tag | | ethertype | | data... |     |
| -------- | -------- | --------------- | ----- | --------- | --------- | --- |
+--------+--------+--------+----------+-----------+--------
|     |     | /   | \   |     |     |     |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
|     |     | /   |     | \   |     |     |
|     |     | /   |     | \   |     |     |
+-----+-----+---------+
|     |     | | pcp | dei | | vlan_id | |   |     |     |
| --- | --- | ----------- | --------- | --- | --- | --- |
+-----+-----+---------+
| Differentiated | services |     |     |     |     |     |
| -------------- | -------- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
Differentiatedservices(DiffServ)isamethodforclassifyingnetworktrafficatlayer3bymarkingpackets
withoneof64differentserviceclasses.ServicesclassesareidentifiedbytheDifferentiatedservices
CodePoint(DSCP)value.SomecommonDSCPvaluesare:
| DSCP     | Name           |     | Service                | class |     | RFC  |
| -------- | -------------- | --- | ---------------------- | ----- | --- | ---- |
| 48       | CS6            |     | NetworkControl         |       |     | 2474 |
| 46       | EF             |     | Telephony              |       |     | 3246 |
| 40       | CS5            |     | Signaling              |       |     | 2474 |
| 34,36,38 | AF41,AF42,AF43 |     | MultimediaConferencing |       |     | 2597 |
| 32       | CS4            |     | Real-TimeInteractive   |       |     | 2474 |
| 26,28,30 | AF31,AF32,AF33 |     | MultimediaStreaming    |       |     | 2597 |
| 24       | CS3            |     | BroadcastVideo         |       |     | 2474 |
| 18,20,22 | AF21,AF22,AF23 |     | Low-LatencyData        |       |     | 2597 |
| 16       | CS2            |     | OAM                    |       |     | 2474 |
| 00       | CS0,BE,DF      |     | BestEffort             |       |     | 2474 |
| 10,12,14 | AF11,AF12,AF13 |     | BulkData               |       |     | 2597 |
| 08       | CS1            |     | Low-PriorityData       |       |     | 3662 |
QoSoverview |11

DSCP CS1 (08) CoS 1 is deliberately set as the lowest priority. This enables a traffic service level below
the standard (best effort or default forwarding) level to be specified.

The DSCP value is carried within the IPv4 DSCP field or the upper 6-bits of the 8-bit IPv6 Traffic Class (TC)
field.

IPv4
+----+-----+----+----+---+-------+----+------+-------+------+------+-------
|ver |dscp |ecn |len |id |offset |ttl |proto |chksum |ip-sa |ip-da | data..
+----+-----+----+----+---+-------+----+------+-------+------+------+-------

+------+-----+
| dscp | ecn |
+------+-----+

\

\

/

/

\

/

IPv6
+-----+-----+-----+-------+-------------+-----------+-------+-------+--------
| ver | tc | len | label | next_header | hop_limit | ip-sa | ip-da | data...
+-----+-----+-----+-------+-------------+-----------+-------+-------+--------

QoS on the switch

There are five key stages a packet passes through when traversing a switch: ingress, prioritization,
destination determination, egress queuing, and transmission.

Switches with at least 52 ports will experience negative performance if a flood occurs where at least 42 ports are

members of the same VLAN and all 52 ports have QoS rules applied to them.

AOS-CX 10.13 Quality of Service Guide | (4100i, 6000, 6100 Switch Series)

12

The following diagram shows how different packets might traverse a switch. It also shows how QoS
configuration settings apply at each stage.

QoS overview | 13

QoS trust

Traffic priorities for networks can be carried in VLAN tags using the CoS Priority Code Point (PCP), or in
IP packet headers using the Differentiated Services Code Point (DSCP). Whether these priorities affect
how traffic is serviced depends on how the QoS trust mode is configured on the switch. The QoS trust
mode specifies how the switch assigns values to ingress packets and can be set globally for all interfaces
or individually for each interface. By default the trust mode is set to cos, meaning the existing QoS
information in the packet will be trusted. The priority values of DSCP packets are mapped to
corresponding CoS values. If the trust mode is set to none the CoS value in the incoming packet will be
marked as zero.

For example:

AOS-CX 10.13 Quality of Service Guide | (4100i, 6000, 6100 Switch Series)

14

Dynamic QoS trust mode

The device profile feature can dynamically set the QoS trust mode on an interface based on the LLDP
information exchanged with a link partner. The device profile's trust mode temporarily overrides the
static trust mode configured for an interface. The override remains in place as long as that link partner
is connected and its link state is up. Use command show interface IFNAME qos to view the current
QoS trust mode for an interface.

Port rate limiting

Port rate limiting helps control undesirable traffic. Its purpose is to allow enough unicast, broadcast,
multicast, and ICMP traffic for the network to function properly, while preventing flooding and traffic
storms.

Some amount of each traffic type is required for normal network operation. For example, broadcast
packets may include ARP and DHCP traffic. Video streams and certain types of network protocol packets
are multicast traffic. Unknown-unicast packets may be intended for devices whose addresses have
temporarily aged out of network forwarding caches. Configuring rate limits can help provide balance
between necessary and flooded traffic.

QoS overview | 15

Theamountofpermittedtraffic(theratelimit)canbespecifiedinkilobits-per-second(kbps)orasa
percentageoflinkbandwidth(percent).
PleasenotethatratelimitsareenforcedseparatelyoneachindividualmemberofaLAG,notontheLAG
asawhole.Whenlimitsareinkilobits-per-second(kbps),largerlimitsmaybeneededonhighspeed
portsinordertoallownormalnetworkfunctionality.Conversely,limitsconfiguredasapercentageof
linkbandwidthmayresultintoomuchundesiredtrafficonhigh-speedports.
Queue profiles
Aqueueprofiledefinesthequeuesthatareassociatedwithaninterfacetocontrolthetransmissionof
packets.Eachprofilesupportsuptoeightqueues,numbered0to7.Thelargerthequeuenumber,the
higheritspriorityduringtransmissionscheduling.Packetsareassignedtoaqueuebasedontheirlocal
priorityvalue(0to7).Aqueueprofilemustmapalleightlocalpriorityvaluestowhateverqueuesare
beingusedontheswitch,andascheduleprofilemustspecifytheconfigurationforthosesamequeues.
Aqueuewithoutalocalpriorityvalueassignedtoitisnotusedtostorepackets.Packetsareassignedto
thequeuebasedonCoSvalue.ThequeueprofiledefinesqueuenumbertoCoSmapping.Thefactory-
defaultmapcrossmapsthe0and1values.
| switch#   | show qos queue-profile | factory-default           |
| --------- | ---------------------- | ------------------------- |
| queue_num | cos                    | name                      |
| --------- | -----------            | ----                      |
| 0         | 1                      | Scavenger_and_backup_data |
| 1         | 0                      |                           |
| 2         | 2                      |                           |
| 3         | 3                      |                           |
| 4         | 4                      |                           |
| 5         | 5                      |                           |
| 6         | 6                      |                           |
| 7         | 7                      |                           |
CommonlyusedcommandsforworkingwithQoSqueuesareasfollows:
n qos queue-profile:Createsanemptyqueue-profileandenterstheprofileconfigurationcontext.
queue:Assignsadescriptivenametoaqueue.
n name
n map queue:MapsqueuetoCoS.
n apply qos queue-profile:Appliesaqueue-profilegloballytoallinterfaces.
| Schedule | profiles |     |
| -------- | -------- | --- |
Ascheduleprofiledeterminestheorderinwhichqueuesareselectedfortransmission,andtheamount
ofserviceavailableforeachqueue.Ascheduleprofilemustbeconfiguredoneveryinterfaceatall
times.Ascheduleprofilecanbeappliedgloballytoallinterfaces,oronlytospecificinterfaces.The
switchdescribedinthisguidesupportsGuaranteedMinimumBandwidth(GMB),Strict,andStrictEQS
scheduling.
Theswitchdescribedinthisguidesupports8queues.
| switch#        | show qos schedule-profile |     |
| -------------- | ------------------------- | --- |
| profile_status | profile_name              |     |
| -------------- | ------------              |     |
| applied        | factory-default           |     |
| complete       | strict                    |     |
AOS-CX10.13QualityofServiceGuide|(4100i,6000,6100SwitchSeries) 16

switch#
show qos schedule-profile factory-default
| queue_num    | algorithm     | percent max-bandwidth_kbps |
| ------------ | ------------- | -------------------------- |
| ---------    | ------------- | ------- ------------------ |
| 0            | min-bandwidth | 2                          |
| 1            | min-bandwidth | 3                          |
| 2            | min-bandwidth | 30                         |
| 3            | min-bandwidth | 10                         |
| 4            | min-bandwidth | 10                         |
| 5            | min-bandwidth | 10                         |
| 6            | min-bandwidth | 15                         |
| 7            | min-bandwidth | 20                         |
| Egress queue | shaping       |                            |
Egressqueueshapinglimitstheamountoftraffictransmittedperstrictoutputandguaranteed
minimumbandwidthqueues.Thebufferassociatedwitheachegressqueuestoresexcesstrafficto
absorbburstsandsmoothstheoutputrate.Forexample,anadministratormightlimitstrict-priorityor
min-bandwidthqueuetraffictopreventlow-priorityqueuestarvationintheeventthatadevice
inappropriatelysendstoomanyhigher-prioritypackets.
EgressqueueshapingcanbeconfiguredonanEthernetportoronalinkaggregationgroup(LAG).To
configureegressqueueshaping,defineascheduleprofilewiththestrictpriorityalgorithmassignedto
eachqueue.
Terms
Class
Fornetworking,asetofpacketssharingacommoncharacteristic.Forexample,allIPv4packets.
Code point
Thenameofapacketheaderfield,orthevaluecarriedwithinapacketheaderfield:
n Example1:Prioritycodepoint(PCP)isthenameofafieldintheIEEE802.1QVLANtag.
n Example2:Differentiatedservicescodepoint(DSCP)isthenameofafieldcarriedwithintheDS
fieldofanIPpacketheader.
| Class of service | (CoS) |     |
| ---------------- | ----- | --- |
A3-bitvalueusedtomarkpacketswithoneofeightclasses(levelsofpriority).Itiscarriedwithinthe
prioritycodepoint(PCP)fieldoftheIEEE802.1QVLANtag.
| Differentiated | services code | point (DSCP) |
| -------------- | ------------- | ------------ |
A6-bitvalueusedtomarkpacketsfordifferentper-hopbehaviorasoriginallydefinedbyIETFRFC
2474.Itiscarriedwithinthedifferentiatedservices(DS)fieldoftheIPv4orIPv6header.
Metadata
Informationlabelsassociatedwitheachpacketintheswitch,separatefromthepacketheadersand
data.Theselabelsareusedbytheswitchinitshandlingofthepacket.Forexample:arrivalport,
egressport,VLANmembership,andlocalpriority.
| Priority code | point (PCP) |     |
| ------------- | ----------- | --- |
Thenameofa3-bitfieldintheIEEE802.1QVLANtag.ItcarriestheCoSvaluetomarkapacketwith
oneofeightclasses(prioritylevels).
| Quality of service | (QoS) |     |
| ------------------ | ----- | --- |
Generaltermusedwhendescribingormeasuringperformance.Fornetworking,itmeanshow
differentclassesofpacketsaretreatedwhentraversinganetworkordevice.
QoSoverview |17

Traffic class (TC)

General term for a set of packets sharing a common characteristic. It used to be the name of an 8-bit
field in the IPv6 header originally defined by IETF RFC 2460. This field name was changed to
differentiated services by IETF RFC 2474.

Type of service (ToS)

General term when there are different levels of treatment (fare class). It used to be the name of an 8-
bit field in the IPv4 header originally defined by IETF RFC 791. This field name was changed to
differentiated services by IETF RFC 2474.

AOS-CX 10.13 Quality of Service Guide | (4100i, 6000, 6100 Switch Series)

18

Chapter 3
QoS configuration
QoS configuration
| Configuring | QoS |     |     |
| ----------- | --- | --- | --- |
Procedure
1. Configurehowvaluesareassignedtoingresspacketswiththecommandsqos dscp-map,andqos
trust.
2. Optionally,addaratelimitforingresstrafficononeormoreinterfaceswiththecommandrate-
limit.
3. IfyoudonotwanttousethedefaultQoSqueueprofileforqueuemapping,createoneormore
customqueueprofileswiththecommandqos queue-profile.Foreachqueueinacustomqueue
profile:
| a. AssignaCoSvaluemappingwiththecommandmap |     |     | queue. |
| ------------------------------------------ | --- | --- | ------ |
b. Optionally,defineadescriptivenamewiththecommandname queue.Allqueuesmustbe
mappedtoaCoSvalue,andthequeuesselectedforusemustbeincontiguousorderstarting
at0.
4. IfyoudonotwanttousethedefaultQoSscheduleprofiletodeterminetheorderinwhichqueues
areselectedtotransmitapacket,createoneormorecustomscheduleprofileswiththecommand
qos schedule-profile.Foreachqueueinacustomschedulequeueprofile,definescheduling
| prioritywiththecommandsstrict |     |     | queueandmin-bandwidth. |
| ----------------------------- | --- | --- | ---------------------- |
5. Optionallyforstrictqueues,configureegressqueueshapingtolimitegressbandwidthonan
interfacetoavaluethatislessthanitslinerate.Usethemax-bandwidthparameterofthestrict
queuecommand.
6. ActivateQoSsettingswiththecommandapply qos.Thiscommandletsyouapplyaqueueprofile
andscheduleprofilegloballytoallinterfaces,orascheduleprofileoverridetoindividual
interfaces.
7. ViewQoSconfigurationsettingswiththeprovidedshowcommands.
Examples
| This example | creates the | following | configuration: |
| ------------ | ----------- | --------- | -------------- |
ThefollowingexamplecreatesaqueueprofilenamedQ1andassignsqueuetoCoSvaluemapping:
| Queue | CoS Value |     |     |
| ----- | --------- | --- | --- |
| 0     | 0         |     |     |
| 1     | 1         |     |     |
| 2     | 2         |     |     |
| 3     | 3         |     |     |
19
AOS-CX10.13QualityofServiceGuide|(4100i,6000,6100SwitchSeries)

| Queue | CoS | Value |     |     |     |     |     |     |
| ----- | --- | ----- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| 4     | 4   |       |     |     |     |     |     |     |
| 5     | 5   |       |     |     |     |     |     |     |
| 6     | 6   |       |     |     |     |     |     |     |
| 7     | 7   |       |     |     |     |     |     |     |
CreatesascheduleprofilenamedS1andassignsminimumbandwidthforeachqueuewitha
correspondingpercentagevalue:
| Queue | Minimum |     | bandwidth | (pecentage) |     |     |     |     |
| ----- | ------- | --- | --------- | ----------- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| 0     | 5       |     |           |             |     |     |     |     |
| 1     | 5       |     |           |             |     |     |     |     |
| 2     | 10      |     |           |             |     |     |     |     |
| 3     | 10      |     |           |             |     |     |     |     |
| 4     | 20      |     |           |             |     |     |     |     |
| 5     | 20      |     |           |             |     |     |     |     |
| 6     | 10      |     |           |             |     |     |     |     |
| 7     | 20      |     |           |             |     |     |     |     |
AppliesQ1andS1toallinterfacesthatdonothaveaQoSoverrideapplied.
| switch(config)#          |     | qos | trust            | cos     |       |           |     |     |
| ------------------------ | --- | --- | ---------------- | ------- | ----- | --------- | --- | --- |
| switch(config)#          |     | qos | queue-profile    |         | Q1    |           |     |     |
| switch(config-queue)#    |     |     | map              | queue 0 | cos 0 |           |     |     |
| switch(config-queue)#    |     |     | map              | queue 1 | cos 1 |           |     |     |
| switch(config-queue)#    |     |     | map              | queue 2 | cos 2 |           |     |     |
| switch(config-queue)#    |     |     | map              | queue 3 | cos 3 |           |     |     |
| switch(config-queue)#    |     |     | map              | queue 4 | cos 4 |           |     |     |
| switch(config-queue)#    |     |     | map              | queue 5 | cos 5 |           |     |     |
| switch(config-queue)#    |     |     | map              | queue 6 | cos 6 |           |     |     |
| switch(config-queue)#    |     |     | map              | queue 7 | cos 7 |           |     |     |
| switch(config)#          |     | qos | schedule-profile |         | S1    |           |     |     |
| switch(config-schedule)# |     |     | min-bandwidth    |         | queue | 0 percent | 5   |     |
| switch(config-schedule)# |     |     | min-bandwidth    |         | queue | 1 percent | 5   |     |
| switch(config-schedule)# |     |     | min-bandwidth    |         | queue | 2 percent | 10  |     |
| switch(config-schedule)# |     |     | min-bandwidth    |         | queue | 3 percent | 10  |     |
| switch(config-schedule)# |     |     | min-bandwidth    |         | queue | 4 percent | 20  |     |
| switch(config-schedule)# |     |     | min-bandwidth    |         | queue | 5 percent | 20  |     |
| switch(config-schedule)# |     |     | min-bandwidth    |         | queue | 6 percent | 10  |     |
| switch(config-schedule)# |     |     | min-bandwidth    |         | queue | 7 percent | 20  |     |
switch(config-schedule)# apply qos queue-profile Q1 schedule-profile S1
| Configuring |     | expedited |     | forwarding |     | for | VoIP | traffic |
| ----------- | --- | --------- | --- | ---------- | --- | --- | ---- | ------- |
QoSconfiguration |20

VoiceoverIP(VoIP)trafficisdelayandjittersensitive.ForoptimumtransmissionofVoIPtraffic,dwell
timeinnetworkdevicesmustbekepttoaminimumandallnetworkdevicesinthedatapathmusthave
identicalper-hopbehaviors.ToconfigureadedicatedqueueontheswitchtohandleVoIPtrafficwith
priorityservicebeforeallotherqueues,followthesesteps.
Prerequisites
ThisscenarioassumesthatVoIPpacketsareuniquelyidentifiedusingDiffServcodepoint46,Expedited
Forwarding(EF).
Procedure
1. MapDSCPEFpacketsexclusivelytoCoSvalue6.ThedefaultDSCPmaphaseightcodepoints(40
through47),thataremappedtoCoSvalue5.Toreserve CoSvalue6forVoIPtraffic,theother
codepointsmustbereassigned.Inthisscenario,CoSvalue6isusedforallreassignments,
includingforcodepoint40,CallSignalingprotocol(CS5).
| switch(config)# | qos | dscp-map | 40  | cos | 6 name CS5 |     |
| --------------- | --- | -------- | --- | --- | ---------- | --- |
| switch(config)# | qos | dscp-map | 41  | cos | 6          |     |
| switch(config)# | qos | dscp-map | 42  | cos | 6          |     |
| switch(config)# | qos | dscp-map | 43  | cos | 6          |     |
| switch(config)# | qos | dscp-map | 44  | cos | 6          |     |
| switch(config)# | qos | dscp-map | 45  | cos | 6          |     |
2. Queue7isthehighestpriorityqueue,soforbestthroughput,createaqueueprofilethatmaps
CoStoqueue7.
| switch(config)#       | qos | queue-profile |       | ef_priority            |     |     |
| --------------------- | --- | ------------- | ----- | ---------------------- | --- | --- |
| switch(config-queue)# |     | name          | queue | 7 Voice_Priority_Queue |     |     |
| switch(config-queue)# |     | map           | queue | 7 cos                  | 5   |     |
| switch(config-queue)# |     | map           | queue | 6 cos                  | 7   |     |
| switch(config-queue)# |     | map           | queue | 5 cos                  | 6   |     |
| switch(config-queue)# |     | map           | queue | 4 cos                  | 4   |     |
| switch(config-queue)# |     | map           | queue | 3 cos                  | 3   |     |
| switch(config-queue)# |     | map           | queue | 2 cos                  | 2   |     |
| switch(config-queue)# |     | map           | queue | 1 cos                  | 1   |     |
| switch(config-queue)# |     | map           | queue | 0 cos                  | 0   |     |
3. Createascheduleprofilethatservicesqueue7usingstrictpriority(SP),andtheremaining
queueswithminimumbandwidth.Thisscenariodefinesqueue7asstrictandgivesqueues0-6an
equalminimumbandwidth.
| switch(config)#          | qos | schedule-profile |     |       | voip            |     |
| ------------------------ | --- | ---------------- | --- | ----- | --------------- | --- |
| switch(config-schedule)# |     | strict           |     | queue | 7               |     |
| switch(config-schedule)# |     | min-bandwidth    |     |       | queue 6 percent | 10  |
| switch(config-schedule)# |     | min-bandwidth    |     |       | queue 5 percent | 10  |
| switch(config-schedule)# |     | min-bandwidth    |     |       | queue 4 percent | 10  |
| switch(config-schedule)# |     | min-bandwidth    |     |       | queue 3 percent | 10  |
| switch(config-schedule)# |     | min-bandwidth    |     |       | queue 2 percent | 10  |
| switch(config-schedule)# |     | min-bandwidth    |     |       | queue 1 percent | 10  |
| switch(config-schedule)# |     | min-bandwidth    |     |       | queue 0 percent | 10  |
AOS-CX10.13QualityofServiceGuide|(4100i,6000,6100SwitchSeries) 21

4. Apply the profiles to all interfaces.

switch(config)# apply qos queue-profile ef_priority schedule-profile voip

5. Configure DSCP trust mode on all ports

switch(config)# qos trust dscp

Configuring rate limiting

This scenario illustrates how to use rate limiting to manage the traffic from various devices connected to
a switch. The physical topology of the network looks like this:

A certain amount of broadcast traffic is necessary to maintain healthy network operation, particularly
from routers and across service boundaries. In this scenario, both the service cloud and the router
connections limit this traffic to 1 Gbps. The server has a smaller limit, as it does not require as much
network protocol traffic as the service cloud and router.

A multicast server needs to be able to stream multicast traffic to clients, so a multicast rate limit may
not be helpful. A computer, however, should not be generating large amounts of multicast traffic (it may
be receiving streams, but typically not sending them). In this example, the computer is configured with a
multicast rate limit to prevent malicious traffic from taking up network bandwidth.

Finally, while the service cloud and router may need to send traffic for unknown unicast addresses to
resolve address forwarding, the server and computer should send very little of this type of traffic. Rate
limiting unknown unicast traffic on those two devices enforces that.

Procedure

1. Configure broadcast and multicast rate limiting for the service cloud connection.

switch# config
switch(config)# interface 1/1/1
switch(config-if)# rate-limit broadcast 1000000 kbps
switch(config-if)# rate-limit multicast 2000000 kbps
switch(config-if)# exit

QoS configuration | 22

2. Configure broadcast rate limiting for the router connection.

switch(config-if)# interface 1/1/2
switch(config-if)# rate-limit broadcast 1000000 kbps
switch(config-if)# exit

3. Configure broadcast rate limiting for the server connection.

switch(config-if)# interface 1/1/5
switch(config-if)# rate-limit broadcast 200000 kbps
switch(config-if)# exit

4. Configure broadcast, and multicast rate limiting for the computer connection.

switch(config-if)# interface 1/1/10
switch(config-if)# rate-limit broadcast 1000 kbps
switch(config-if)# rate-limit multicast 500 kbps

Configuring egress queue shaping

This example shows how to apply egress queue shaping to an interface. First, a schedule profile is
created that has per-queue bandwidth limits set on all queues with strict as the scheduling algorithm.
Next, this profile is applied to an interface or LAG.

The following example creates a schedule profile named EQSExample, which services all queues using
strict priority. This profile configures queues 1, 4, and 7 with a bandwidth limit of 10 Gbps, 20 Gbps, and
30 Gbps respectively. The apply qos schedule-profile command is then used to apply the EQSExample
profile to interface 1/1/1. The actual bandwidth configured on an interface can be found by using the
show interface <IF-NAME> qos command.

switch(config)# qos schedule-profile EQSExample
switch(config-schedule)# strict queue 0
switch(config-schedule)# strict queue 1 max-bandwidth 10000000 kbps
switch(config-schedule)# strict queue 2
switch(config-schedule)# strict queue 3
switch(config-schedule)# strict queue 4 max-bandwidth 20000000 kbps
switch(config-schedule)# strict queue 5
switch(config-schedule)# strict queue 6
switch(config-schedule)# strict queue 7 max-bandwidth 30000000 kbps
switch(config-schedule)# exit
switch(config)# interface 1/1/1
switch(config-if)# apply qos schedule-profile EQSExample

The following example creates a schedule profile named EQSExample which services all queues using
strict priority. This profile configures queues 1, 4 and 7 with a bandwidth limit of 10%, 20%, and 30% of
link bandwidth respectively. The apply qos schedule-profile command is then used to apply the
EQSExample profile to the port. The actual burst and bandwidth configured on an interface can be
found by using the show interface <IF-NAME> qos command.

(config)# qos schedule-profile EQSExample
(config-schedule)# strict queue 0

AOS-CX 10.13 Quality of Service Guide | (4100i, 6000, 6100 Switch Series)

23

| (config-schedule)# | strict | queue 1 max-bandwidth |     | 10 percent |
| ------------------ | ------ | --------------------- | --- | ---------- |
(config-schedule)#
|                    | strict    | queue 2               |     |            |
| ------------------ | --------- | --------------------- | --- | ---------- |
| (config-schedule)# | strict    | queue 3               |     |            |
| (config-schedule)# | strict    | queue 4 max-bandwidth |     | 20 percent |
| (config-schedule)# | strict    | queue 5               |     |            |
| (config-schedule)# | strict    | queue 6               |     |            |
| (config-schedule)# | strict    | queue 7 max-bandwidth |     | 30 percent |
| Configuring        | threshold | profiles              |     |            |
Thethresholdprofileisanoptionalconfigurationthatspecifiesaper-packetactiontobetakenforeach
portqueuewhenthequeueutilizationreachesorexceedstheconfiguredthreshold.Theper-queue
configurationwithinthethresholdprofileisoptional,whichmeansanynumberofqueuesmaybe
configured.Anunconfiguredqueuemeansthatnothresholdactionbehaviorwilloccur.Also,anempty
thresholdprofileisvalidandcanbeapplied.
Usetheapply qos threshold-profile <THRESHOLD-NAME>commandintheglobalcontexttoconfigure
allportstousetheprofile,orintheinterfacecontexttoconfiguretheinterfacetousetheprofile.No
thresholdprofilesarecreatedorconfiguredbydefault.
Inanenvironmentwherecongestionmanagementfeaturesarerequiredinordertoreducelatencyand
responsivetransportprotocolsareinuse,ECNcanbeconfiguredonqueuescarryingdelay-sensitive
traffic.Thedesiredresultisthatanetworkdevice'sport-queueutilizationisactivelymanaged,resulting
inECN-capabletransport(ECT)packetsbeingCongestionEncountered(CE)markedwhenqueue
utilizationreachesorexceedsaconfiguredthreshold.
Procedure
| Supporting | Ethernet | 802.1D | Class | of Service |
| ---------- | -------- | ------ | ----- | ---------- |
IEEE802.1QisthemostcurrentEthernetstandardforClassofService(CoS).Itsupersededanearlier
standard,802.1D,in2005.IEEE802.1Qslightlychangedtheorderingoftheclassesofservicefromits
predecessorIEEE802.1DforCoS2andCoS0:
| CoS 802.1Q | CoS 802.1D      |     |     |     |
| ---------- | --------------- | --- | --- | --- |
| 7Network   | 7NetworkControl |     |     |     |
Control
| 6Internetwork | 6Voice(<10mslatency) |     |     |     |
| ------------- | -------------------- | --- | --- | --- |
Control
| 5Voice(<10ms | 5Video(<100mslatency) |     |     |     |
| ------------ | --------------------- | --- | --- | --- |
latency)
| 4Video | 4ControlledLoad |     |     |     |
| ------ | --------------- | --- | --- | --- |
(<100ms
latency)
| 3Critical | 3ExcellentEffort |     |     |     |
| --------- | ---------------- | --- | --- | --- |
Applications
| 2Excellent | 0BestEffort |     |     |     |
| ---------- | ----------- | --- | --- | --- |
QoSconfiguration |24

| CoS 802.1Q |     | CoS | 802.1D |     |     |     |     |
| ---------- | --- | --- | ------ | --- | --- | --- | --- |
Effort
| 0BestEffort |     | 2Spare      |     |     |     |     |     |
| ----------- | --- | ----------- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| 1Background |     | 1Background |     |     |     |     |     |
In802.1D,bothCoS2andCoS1arebelowCoS0(BestEffort).
Whenaswitchisinstalledinanetworkofdevicesfollowing802.1DClassofService,theQoStoqueue
mappingmustbereconfiguredtofollowthe802.1DstandardbyswappingtheassignmentsofCoS0
and2:
1. CreateanewqueueprofilewiththedesiredqueuetoCoSmappingchanges.
| 2. Applythecreatedqueueprofile,usingtheapply |        |               |     |            | qoscommand. |     |     |
| -------------------------------------------- | ------ | ------------- | --- | ---------- | ----------- | --- | --- |
| switch#                                      | config |               |     |            |             |     |     |
| switch(config)#                              |        | queue-profile |     | newProfile |             |     |     |
| switch(config-queue)#                        |        |               | map | queue 0    | cos 1       |     |     |
| switch(config-queue)#                        |        |               | map | queue 2    | cos 0       |     |     |
| switch(config-queue)#                        |        |               | map | queue 1    | cos 2       |     |     |
| switch(config-queue)#                        |        |               | map | queue 3    | cos 3       |     |     |
| switch(config-queue)#                        |        |               | map | queue 4    | cos 4       |     |     |
switch(config-queue)#
|                       |             |       | map           | queue 5    | cos 5 |     |     |
| --------------------- | ----------- | ----- | ------------- | ---------- | ----- | --- | --- |
| switch(config-queue)# |             |       | map           | queue 6    | cos 6 |     |     |
| switch(config-queue)# |             |       | map           | queue 7    | cos 7 |     |     |
| switch#               | show        | qos   | queue-profile | newProfile |       |     |     |
| queue_num             |             | cos   | name          |            |       |     |     |
| ---------             | ----------- |       | ----          |            |       |     |     |
| 0                     | 1           |       |               |            |       |     |     |
| 1                     | 2           |       |               |            |       |     |     |
| 2                     | 0           |       |               |            |       |     |     |
| 3                     | 3           |       |               |            |       |     |     |
| 4                     | 4           |       |               |            |       |     |     |
| 5                     | 5           |       |               |            |       |     |     |
| 6                     | 6           |       |               |            |       |     |     |
| 7                     | 7           |       |               |            |       |     |     |
| Monitoring            |             | queue | operation     |            |       |     |     |
Usetheshowinterfacequeuescommandtodisplaythetraffictransmittedperqueue,andthenumber
ofpacketsdroppedduetothequeuebeingfull.(Tx Bytesisavailableonthe6000and6100Switch
Series.)Forexample:
| switch#   | show         | interface | 1/1/1             | queues      |       |          |     |
| --------- | ------------ | --------- | ----------------- | ----------- | ----- | -------- | --- |
| Interface | 1/1/1        | is        | (Administratively |             | down) |          |     |
| Admin     | state        | is down   |                   |             |       |          |     |
| State     | information: |           | admin_down        |             |       |          |     |
|           | Tx           | Packets   |                   | Tx          | Bytes | Tx Drops |     |
| Q0        |              | 100       |                   |             | 8000  |          | 0   |
| Q1        |              | 1234567   |                   | 12345678908 |       |          | 5   |
| Q2        |              |           | 0                 |             | 0     |          | 0   |
| Q3        |              |           | 0                 |             | 0     |          | 0   |
| Q4        |              |           | 0                 |             | 0     |          | 0   |
AOS-CX10.13QualityofServiceGuide|(4100i,6000,6100SwitchSeries) 25

| Q5  | 0   | 0   | 0   |
| --- | --- | --- | --- |
| Q6  | 0   | 0   | 0   |
| Q7  | 0   | 0   | 0   |
Tx Bytes:Totalbytestransmitted.Thebytecountmayincludepacketheadersandinternalmetadata
thatareremovedbeforethepacketistransmitted.Packetheadersaddedwhenthepacketis
transmittedmaynotbeincluded.
Tx Packets:Totalpacketstransmitted.
Tx Drops:Thenumberofpacketsdroppedbyaqueuebeforeitwassent.Whentrafficcannotbe
forwardedoutanegressinterface,itbacksupatingress.Themoreservicingassignedtoaqueuebya
scheduleprofile,thelesslikelytrafficdestinedforthatqueuewillbackupandbedropped.TxDrops
showsthesumofpacketsthatweredroppedacrossalllinemodules(duetoinsufficientcapacity)bythe
ingressVirtualOutputQueues(VOQs)destinedfortheegressport.
QoSconfiguration |26

Chapter 4

QoS commands

QoS commands

apply qos
apply qos [queue-profile <QUEUE-NAME>] schedule-profile <SCHEDULE-NAME>
no apply qos [queue-profile <QUEUE-NAME>] schedule-profile <SCHEDULE-NAME>

Description

Applies a queue profile and schedule profile globally to all Ethernet and LAG interfaces on the switch, or
applies a schedule profile to a specific interface. When applied globally, the specified schedule profile is
configured only on Ethernet interfaces and LAGs that do not already have their own schedule profile.

The same profile can be applied both globally and locally to an interface. This guarantees that an
interface always uses the specified profile, even if the global profile is changed.

The no form of this command removes the specified schedule profile from an interface and the
interface uses the global schedule profile. This is the only way to remove a schedule profile override
from the interface.

Interfaces may shut down briefly during reconfiguration.

Parameter

Description

queue-profile <QUEUE-NAME>

schedule-profile <SCHEDULE-NAME>

Specifies the name of the queue profile to apply. Range: 1 to 64
alphanumeric characters, including period (.), underscore (_), and
hyphen (-). This parameter is not supported in the config-if
context.

Specifies the name of the schedule profile to apply. Range: 1 to 64
alphanumeric characters, including period (.), underscore (_), and
hyphen (-).

Usage

n The switch must always have a globally-applied queue and schedule profile. To stop using a given

profile, apply a different profile.

n For a queue profile to be complete and ready to be applied, all eight CoS values must be mapped to a

queue.

n For a schedule profile to be complete and ready to be applied, it must define all queues specified in
the queue profile. All queues must use the same algorithm, except for the highest numbered queue,
which can be strict.

n Both the queue profile and the schedule profile must specify the same number of queues.

n Schedule profiles can be modified while applied, but only in ways where a single command will not
result in the profile becoming invalid. For example, queue 7 can have the algorithm changed, and
weighted queues can have their weights changed.

AOS-CX 10.13 Quality of Service Guide | (4100i, 6000, 6100 Switch Series)

27

n Queuesmustbeconsecutivelydefinedstartingatqueuenumberzero.Forexample,afour-queue
profilewithpriorityvaluesdefinedforqueues0,1,2,3isvalid,butafour-queueprofilewhich
definespriorityvaluesforqueues1,3,5,and7isnot.
n Therecanbeonly2,4,or8queuesinaqueueprofileconfigurationandthequeuesmustbe
consecutivelynumberedstartingatzero.
n Allqueuesmustusethesamealgorithmexceptforthehighestnumberedqueue,whichmaybe
strict.
Ifthenumberofqueueswaschangedfromthepreviousqueueprofiletothenewone,anyEthernetor
LAGinterfaceswithlocallyappliedscheduleprofileswillprogramthenewlyappliedglobalschedule-
profile.Theshowrunning-configinterfacecommandwilllisttheexistingapplyqosschedule-profile
commandwithacommentdescribingtheactualprofileapplied:
Examples
ThefollowingcommandsillustrateavalidconfigurationwhereeveryCoSvalueisassignedtoaqueue
andallassignedqueuesaredefined:
| switch(config)# | qos trust            | cos     |              |
| --------------- | -------------------- | ------- | ------------ |
| switch(config)# | qos queue-profile    |         | Q1           |
| switch(config)# | map queue            | 0 cos 0 |              |
| switch(config)# | map queue            | 1 cos 1 |              |
| switch(config)# | map queue            | 2 cos 2 |              |
| switch(config)# | map queue            | 3 cos 3 |              |
| switch(config)# | map queue            | 4 cos 4 |              |
| switch(config)# | map queue            | 5 cos 5 |              |
| switch(config)# | map queue            | 6 cos 6 |              |
| switch(config)# | map queue            | 7 cos 7 |              |
| switch(config)# | qos schedule-profile |         | S1           |
| switch(config)# | min-bandwidth        | queue   | 0 percent 5  |
| switch(config)# | min-bandwidth        | queue   | 1 percent 5  |
| switch(config)# | min-bandwidth        | queue   | 2 percent 10 |
| switch(config)# | min-bandwidth        | queue   | 3 percent 10 |
| switch(config)# | min-bandwidth        | queue   | 4 percent 20 |
| switch(config)# | min-bandwidth        | queue   | 5 percent 20 |
| switch(config)# | min-bandwidth        | queue   | 6 percent 10 |
| switch(config)# | min-bandwidth        | queue   | 7 percent 20 |
ThefollowingcommandsillustrateaninvalidconfigurationbecauseCoS2isnotassignedtoaqueue:
| switch(config)# | qos trust            | cos     |              |
| --------------- | -------------------- | ------- | ------------ |
| switch(config)# | qos queue-profile    |         | Q1           |
| switch(config)# | map queue            | 0 cos 0 |              |
| switch(config)# | map queue            | 1 cos 1 |              |
| switch(config)# | map queue            | 3 cos 3 |              |
| switch(config)# | map queue            | 4 cos 4 |              |
| switch(config)# | map queue            | 5 cos 5 |              |
| switch(config)# | map queue            | 6 cos 6 |              |
| switch(config)# | map queue            | 7 cos 7 |              |
| switch(config)# | qos schedule-profile |         | S1           |
| switch(config)# | min-bandwidth        | queue   | 0 percent 5  |
| switch(config)# | min-bandwidth        | queue   | 1 percent 5  |
| switch(config)# | min-bandwidth        | queue   | 3 percent 10 |
| switch(config)# | min-bandwidth        | queue   | 4 percent 20 |
| switch(config)# | min-bandwidth        | queue   | 5 percent 20 |
| switch(config)# | min-bandwidth        | queue   | 6 percent 10 |
| switch(config)# | min-bandwidth        | queue   | 7 percent 20 |
QoScommands |28

ApplyingtheQoSprofileQ1andthescheduleprofileS1toallinterfacesthatdonothaveanapplied
interface-specificscheduleprofile:
| switch(config)# |             | apply | qos queue-profile | Q1 schedule-profile | S1  |
| --------------- | ----------- | ----- | ----------------- | ------------------- | --- |
| Command         | History     |       |                   |                     |     |
| Release         |             |       |                   | Modification        |     |
| 10.07orearlier  |             |       |                   | --                  |     |
| Command         | Information |       |                   |                     |     |
| Platforms       | Command     |       | context           | Authority           |     |
Allplatforms config Administratorsorlocalusergroupmemberswithexecution
|     | config-if |     |     | rightsforthiscommand. |     |
| --- | --------- | --- | --- | --------------------- | --- |
config-lag-if
| map       | queue                |     |                         |     |     |
| --------- | -------------------- | --- | ----------------------- | --- | --- |
| map queue | <QUEUE-NUMBER>       |     | cos <PRIORITY-NUMBER>   |     |     |
| no map    | queue <QUEUE-NUMBER> |     | [cos <PRIORITY-NUMBER>] |     |     |
Description
AssignsaCoSvaluetoaqueueinaqueueprofile.Bydefault,thelargerthequeuenumberthehigherits
priority.AqueuewithoutaCoSvalueassignedtoitisnotusedtostorepackets.Thesamequeuecanbe
assignedmultipleCoSvalues.
Thenoformofthiscommandremovesthespecifiedcosvaluefromaspecificqueue.IfnoCoSvalueis
specified,thenallCoSvaluesareremovedfromthequeue.
| Parameter      |     |     |     | Description                         |     |
| -------------- | --- | --- | --- | ----------------------------------- | --- |
| <QUEUE-NUMBER> |     |     |     | Specifiesthequeuenumber.Range:0to7. |     |
<PRIORITY-NUMBER> SpecifiestheCoSvalue.Range:0to7,where0isthelowest
priorityand7isthehighest.
Usage
Thefollowingcommandsillustrateavalidconfiguration,whereeverylocalpriorityvalueisassignedtoa
queue:
| map | queue 0 local-priority |     | 0   |     |     |
| --- | ---------------------- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| map | queue 1 local-priority |     | 1   |     |     |
| map | queue 1 local-priority |     | 2   |     |     |
| map | queue 3 local-priority |     | 3   |     |     |
| map | queue 4 local-priority |     | 4   |     |     |
| map | queue 5 local-priority |     | 5   |     |     |
| map | queue 5 local-priority |     | 6   |     |     |
| map | queue 5 local-priority |     | 7   |     |     |
AOS-CX10.13QualityofServiceGuide|(4100i,6000,6100SwitchSeries) 29

Thefollowingcommandsillustrateaninvalidconfiguration,becauselocalpriority2isnotassignedtoa
queue:
| map queue | 0 local-priority |     |     | 0   |     |     |
| --------- | ---------------- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| map queue | 1 local-priority |     |     | 1   |     |     |
| map queue | 2 local-priority |     |     | 3   |     |     |
| map queue | 3 local-priority |     |     | 4   |     |     |
| map queue | 4 local-priority |     |     | 5   |     |     |
| map queue | 5 local-priority |     |     | 6   |     |     |
| map queue | 5 local-priority |     |     | 7   |     |     |
Examples
Assigningpriority7toqueue7inprofilemyprofile:
| switch(config)#       |     | qos | queue-profile |       | myprofile        |     |
| --------------------- | --- | --- | ------------- | ----- | ---------------- | --- |
| switch(config-queue)# |     |     | map           | queue | 7 local-priority | 7   |
Removingpriority7fromqueue7inprofilemyprofile:
| switch(config)#       |             | qos | queue-profile |     | myprofile              |     |
| --------------------- | ----------- | --- | ------------- | --- | ---------------------- | --- |
| switch(config-queue)# |             |     | no            | map | queue 7 local-priority | 7   |
| Command               | History     |     |               |     |                        |     |
| Release               |             |     |               |     | Modification           |     |
| 10.07orearlier        |             |     |               |     | --                     |     |
| Command               | Information |     |               |     |                        |     |
| Platforms             | Command     |     | context       |     | Authority              |     |
config-queue
Allplatforms Administratorsorlocalusergroupmemberswithexecution
rightsforthiscommand.
min-bandwidth
| min-bandwidth    | queue | <QUEUE-NUMBER> |                |     | percent <PERCENTAGE> |     |
| ---------------- | ----- | -------------- | -------------- | --- | -------------------- | --- |
| no min-bandwidth |       | queue          | <QUEUE-NUMBER> |     |                      |     |
Description
AssignstheGuaranteedMinimumBandwidth(GMB)algorithmandapercentageofbandwidthtoa
queue.GMBallocatesavailablebandwidthamongallnon-emptyqueuesinrelationtotheirconfigured
minimumbandwidth.Non-emptyqueuesareservicedfirstinstrictorderuptotheirminimum
bandwidth.Ifthereisanyremainingbandwidth,theschedulerwillstrictlyserviceanyremainingnon-
emptyqueues.
ThenoformofthiscommandonlyclearsthealgorithmforaqueueifGMBhasbeenassigned.
Occasionally,thefollowingerrorsmayoccur:
QoScommands |30

n *ThescheduleprofiletotalsumofGMBpercentagesmustnotexceed100.*
ThiserroroccurswhenattemptingtoapplyascheduleprofilewithsumofGMBpercentagesofqueues
exceed100percentage.ThesolutionistoconfigureGMBperecntageforqueues,sothatthesumof
percentagemustnotexceed100.
| Parameter      |     |     |     | Description                         |     |
| -------------- | --- | --- | --- | ----------------------------------- | --- |
| <QUEUE-NUMBER> |     |     |     | Specifiesthequeuenumber.Range:0to7. |     |
<PERCENTAGE>
SpecifiesbandwidthpercentageusedforGMBscheduling.Range:
0to100.
Examples
Assigningqueue0ofscheduleprofileS1theGMBschedulingalgorithmwithminimumbandwidthof5
percent:
| switch(config)#          |     | qos | schedule-profile | S1              |     |
| ------------------------ | --- | --- | ---------------- | --------------- | --- |
| switch(config-schedule)# |     |     | min-bandwidth    | queue 0 percent | 5   |
RemovingGMBfromqueue0:
| switch(config)#          |             | qos | schedule-profile | s1           |     |
| ------------------------ | ----------- | --- | ---------------- | ------------ | --- |
| switch(config-schedule)# |             |     | no min-bandwidth | queue 0      |     |
| Command                  | History     |     |                  |              |     |
| Release                  |             |     |                  | Modification |     |
| 10.07orearlier           |             |     |                  | --           |     |
| Command                  | Information |     |                  |              |     |
| Platforms                | Command     |     | context          | Authority    |     |
4100i config-schedule-<NAME> Administratorsorlocalusergroupmemberswithexecution
| 6000 |     |     |     | rightsforthiscommand. |     |
| ---- | --- | --- | --- | --------------------- | --- |
6100
| name          | queue          |     |               |     |     |
| ------------- | -------------- | --- | ------------- | --- | --- |
| name queue    | <QUEUE-NUMBER> |     | <DESCRIPTION> |     |     |
| no name queue | <QUEUE-NUMBER> |     |               |     |     |
Description
Assignsadescriptiontoaqueueinaqueueprofile.Thisisforidentificationpurposesandhasnoeffect
onconfiguration.
Thenoformofthiscommandremovesthedescriptionassociatedwithaqueue.
AOS-CX10.13QualityofServiceGuide|(4100i,6000,6100SwitchSeries) 31

| Parameter      |     |     |     | Description                         |
| -------------- | --- | --- | --- | ----------------------------------- |
| <QUEUE-NUMBER> |     |     |     | Specifiesthequeuenumber.Range:0to7. |
<DESCRIPTION> Specifiesaqueuedescriptionforidentificationpurposes.Range:1
to64alphanumericcharacters,includingperiod(.),underscore(_),
andhyphen(-).
Examples
Assigningthedescriptionpriority-traffictoqueue7:
switch(config)#
|                       |     | qos | queue-profile | myprofile          |
| --------------------- | --- | --- | ------------- | ------------------ |
| switch(config-queue)# |     |     | name queue    | 7 priority-traffic |
Removingthedescriptionfromqueue7:
| switch(config)#       |             | qos | queue-profile | myprofile    |
| --------------------- | ----------- | --- | ------------- | ------------ |
| switch(config-queue)# |             |     | no name       | queue 7      |
| Command               | History     |     |               |              |
| Release               |             |     |               | Modification |
| 10.07orearlier        |             |     |               | --           |
| Command               | Information |     |               |              |
| Platforms             | Command     |     | context       | Authority    |
config-queue
Allplatforms Administratorsorlocalusergroupmemberswithexecution
rightsforthiscommand.
qos cos
| qos cos <CODE-POINT> |     |     |     |     |
| -------------------- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
no qos cos
Description
ConfiguresaCoSPCPremarkforanEthernetorLAGinterface.Packetsthatingressontheinterfaceare
remarkedategressusingtheconfiguredCoSPCPvalue.
TheremarkonlyoccurswhenQoStrustmodeontheinterfaceissettonone.
IfQoStrustmodeisnotsettonone,thentheremarkisignored,andthefollowingcommandswillshow
theCoSremarkstatusasignored (incompatible Port Access Trust configuration)ornot applied'
| (incompatible | QoS | global/port | Trust | configuration): |
| ------------- | --- | ----------- | ----- | --------------- |
n showrunning-configuration
n showinterface<PORT-NUM>
n showinterface<PORT-NUM>qos
ThenoformofthiscommandremovesaCoSremarkonaninterface.
QoScommands |32

| Parameter |     |     |     | Description |
| --------- | --- | --- | --- | ----------- |
<CODE-POINT> Specifiesan802.1VLANpriorityCoSvalue.Range:0to7.
Examples
ConfiguringaCoSremarkof3oninterface1/1/1:
| switch(config)#    |     | interface | 1/1/1 |      |
| ------------------ | --- | --------- | ----- | ---- |
| switch(config-if)# |     | qos       | trust | none |
| switch(config-if)# |     | qos       | cos 3 |      |
DeletingaCoSremarkof3oninterface1/1/1:
| switch(config)#     |         | interface | 1/1/1 |              |
| ------------------- | ------- | --------- | ----- | ------------ |
| switch(config-if)#  |         | no qos    | cos   |              |
| Command History     |         |           |       |              |
| Release             |         |           |       | Modification |
| 10.07orearlier      |         |           |       | --           |
| Command Information |         |           |       |              |
| Platforms           | Command | context   |       | Authority    |
4100i config-if Administratorsorlocalusergroupmemberswithexecution
| 6000 |     |     |     | rightsforthiscommand. |
| ---- | --- | --- | --- | --------------------- |
6100
qos dscp
| qos dscp <CODE-POINT> |     |     |     |     |
| --------------------- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
no qos dscp
Description
Configuresadifferentiatedservicescodepoint(DSCP)remarkforanEthernetorLAGinterface.IPV4and
IPV6packetsthatingressontheinterfaceareremarkedategressusingtheconfiguredDSCPvalue.
TheremarkonlyoccurswhenQoStrustmodeontheinterfaceissettonone.IfaDSCPremarkis
configuredandthentrustmodeissubsequentlysettocosordscp,thentheDSCPremarkisignored.
Thefollowingcommandswillshowtheremarkstatusasignored(incompatiblePortAccessTrust
configuration)ornotapplied(incompatibleQoSglobalorporttrustconfiguration):
n show running-configuration
| n show interface | <INTERFACE-NAME> |     |     |     |
| ---------------- | ---------------- | --- | --- | --- |
| n show interface | <INTERFACE-NAME> |     |     | qos |
ThenoformofthiscommandremovesaCoSremarkonaninterface.
AOS-CX10.13QualityofServiceGuide|(4100i,6000,6100SwitchSeries) 33

| Parameter |     |     |     | Description |
| --------- | --- | --- | --- | ----------- |
<CODE-POINT> SpecifiesanIPdifferentiatedservicescodepointvalue.Range:0
to63.
Usage
OrderofoperationforarrivingIPv4orIPv6packets:
1. TheCoSmetadataisassignedfromtheDSCPmapentryindexedbytheDSCPremarkvalue.
2. IfaCoSremarkisalsoconfiguredalongwiththeDSCPremark,theCoSremarkvaluewillbe
assignedtothepacket'sCoSmetadata.
3. TheCoSmetadataandqueueprofilearethenusedtodeterminethequeueforthepacket.Ifthe
packetistransmittedwithan802.1QVLANtag,thePCPwillberemarkedtomatchtheCoS
metadata.
Forarrivingnon-IPpackets:
TheCoSmetadataisassignedfromtheDSCPmapentryindexedbytheDSCPremarkvalue.ThisCoS
valueandthequeueprofileareusedtoselectthequeueforpacketscheduling.ThePCPoftaggednon-
IPpacketswillberemarkedtothisCoSvalue.
Examples
ConfiguringaDSCPremarkof43oninterface1/1/1:
| switch(config)#    |     | interface | 1/1/1      |     |
| ------------------ | --- | --------- | ---------- | --- |
| switch(config-if)# |     | qos       | trust none |     |
| switch(config-if)# |     | qos       | dscp 43    |     |
DeletingaDSCPremarkof43oninterface1/1/1:
| switch(config)#     |         | interface | 1/1/1 |              |
| ------------------- | ------- | --------- | ----- | ------------ |
| switch(config-if)#  |         | no dscp   | 43    |              |
| Command History     |         |           |       |              |
| Release             |         |           |       | Modification |
| 10.07orearlier      |         |           |       | --           |
| Command Information |         |           |       |              |
| Platforms           | Command | context   |       | Authority    |
4100i config-if Administratorsorlocalusergroupmemberswithexecution
| 6000 | config-lag-if |     |     | rightsforthiscommand. |
| ---- | ------------- | --- | --- | --------------------- |
6100
qos dscp-map
qos dscp-map <CODE-POINT> [color <COLOR>] [cos <COS-VALUE>] [name <DESCRIPTION>]
| no qos dscp-map | <CODE-POINT> |     |     |     |
| --------------- | ------------ | --- | --- | --- |
QoScommands |34

Description
DefinestheCoSvaluecolorassignedtoincomingpacketsforaspecificIPdifferentiatedservicescode
point(DSCP)value.TheDSCPmapvaluesareusedtoprioritizeincomingpacketswhenQoStrustmode
issettodscp.
Thenoformofthiscommandrestorestheassignmentsforacodepointtothedefaultsetting.
Thecolor<COLOR>parameterissupportedonlyin4100iSwitchSeries.
Useshow qos dscp-maptoviewthecurrentsettings.ToseethedefaultDSCPmapsettings,usethe
followingcommand:
| switch# show        | qos dscp-map | default      |
| ------------------- | ------------ | ------------ |
| DSCP code_point     | cos          | color name   |
| -------- ---------- | ---          | ------- ---- |
| 000000 0            | 0            | green CS0    |
| 000001 1            | 0            | green        |
| 000010 2            | 0            | green        |
| 000011 3            | 0            | green        |
| 000100 4            | 0            | green        |
| 000101 5            | 0            | green        |
...
| 101101 45 | 5   | green     |
| --------- | --- | --------- |
| 101110 46 | 5   | green EF  |
| 101111 47 | 5   | green     |
| 110000 48 | 6   | green CS6 |
...
| 111101 61           | 7            | green   |
| ------------------- | ------------ | ------- |
| 111110 62           | 7            | green   |
| 111111 63           | 7            | green   |
| switch# show        | qos dscp-map | default |
| DSCP code_point     | cos          | name    |
| -------- ---------- | ---          | ----    |
| 000000 0            | 0            | CS0     |
| 000001 1            | 0            |         |
| 000010 2            | 0            |         |
| 000011 3            | 0            |         |
| 000100 4            | 0            |         |
| 000101 5            | 0            |         |
...
| 101101 45 | 5   |     |
| --------- | --- | --- |
| 101110 46 | 5   | EF  |
| 101111 47 | 5   |     |
| 110000 48 | 6   | CS6 |
...
| 111100 60 | 7   |     |
| --------- | --- | --- |
| 111101 61 | 7   |     |
| 111110 62 | 7   |     |
| 111111 63 | 7   |     |
Parameter Description
<CODE-POINT> SpecifiesanIPdifferentiatedservicescodepoint.Range:0to63.
Default:0.
color <COLOR> ConfigurestheQoSCoSmapcolor.Thesupportedcolorsare
AOS-CX10.13QualityofServiceGuide|(4100i,6000,6100SwitchSeries) 35

| Parameter |     |     | Description |     |     |
| --------- | --- | --- | ----------- | --- | --- |
green,red,andyellow.Thedefaultcolorisgreen.
cos <COS-VALUE> Specifiesan802.1pVLANpriorityCoSremarkvalue.Range:0to7.
Default0.
cos <PCP-VALUE> Specifiesanoptional802.1pVLANPriorityCodePointremark
value.Range:0to7.Default:Noremark.
name <DESCRIPTION>
SpecifiesadescriptionfortheDSCPsetting.Thenameisusedfor
identificationonly,andhasnoeffectonqueueconfiguration.
Range:1to64alphanumericcharacters,includingperiod(.),
underscore(_),andhyphen(-).
Examples
Settingcodepoint46toaCosof7andCoSmapcolorasyellow:
| switch(config)# | qos | dscp-map | 46 cos 7 name | new color | yellow |
| --------------- | --- | -------- | ------------- | --------- | ------ |
Settingcodepoint41toaCoSof6:
| switch(config)# | qos | dscp-map | 41 cos 6 |     |     |
| --------------- | --- | -------- | -------- | --- | --- |
Settingcodepoint41tothedefaultvalue:
| switch(config)#     | no      | qos dscp-map | 41                      |     |     |
| ------------------- | ------- | ------------ | ----------------------- | --- | --- |
| Command History     |         |              |                         |     |     |
| Release             |         |              | Modification            |     |     |
| 10.13               |         |              | Added<COLOR>parameters. |     |     |
| 10.07orearlier      |         |              | --                      |     |     |
| Command Information |         |              |                         |     |     |
| Platforms           | Command | context      | Authority               |     |     |
4100i config Administratorsorlocalusergroupmemberswithexecution
| 6000 |     |     | rightsforthiscommand. |     |     |
| ---- | --- | --- | --------------------- | --- | --- |
6100
qos queue-profile
| qos queue-profile    | <NAME> |     |     |     |     |
| -------------------- | ------ | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| no qos queue-profile | <NAME> |     |     |     |     |
Description
QoScommands |36

CreatesanewQoSqueueprofileandswitchestotheconfig-queuecontextfortheprofile.Or,ifthe
specifiedQoSqueueprofileexists,thiscommandswitchestotheconfig-queuecontextfortheprofile..
AqueueprofilemapsqueuestoCoSvalues.Eachprofilehastwo,four,oreightqueuesnumbered0to
7.Thelargerthequeuenumber,thehigheritspriorityduringtransmissionscheduling.
ThenoformofthiscommandremovesthespecifiedQoSqueueprofile.Onlyprofilesthatarenot
currentlyappliedcanberemoved.
| Parameter |     |     | Description                                    |
| --------- | --- | --- | ---------------------------------------------- |
| <NAME>    |     |     | SpecifiesthenameoftheQoSqueueprofiletocreateor |
configure.Range:1to64alphanumericcharacters,including
period(.),underscore(_),andhyphen(-).
Examples
Creatingtheprofilemyprofile:
| switch(config)# | qos | queue-profile | myprofile |
| --------------- | --- | ------------- | --------- |
switch(config-queue)#
Deletingtheprofilemyprofile:
| switch(config)#     | no      | qos queue-profile | myprofile    |
| ------------------- | ------- | ----------------- | ------------ |
| Command History     |         |                   |              |
| Release             |         |                   | Modification |
| 10.07orearlier      |         |                   | --           |
| Command Information |         |                   |              |
| Platforms           | Command | context           | Authority    |
Allplatforms config Administratorsorlocalusergroupmemberswithexecution
rightsforthiscommand.
qos schedule-profile
| qos schedule-profile    | <NAME> |        |     |
| ----------------------- | ------ | ------ | --- |
| no qos schedule-profile |        | <NAME> |     |
Description
CreatesaQoSscheduleprofileandswitchestotheconfig-schedulecontextfortheprofile.Ifthe
specifiedscheduleprofileexists,thiscommandswitchestotheconfig-schedulecontextfortheprofile.
Thescheduleprofiledeterminestheorderinwhichqueuesareselectedtotransmitapacket,andthe
amountofservicedefinedforeachqueue.
AOS-CX10.13QualityofServiceGuide|(4100i,6000,6100SwitchSeries) 37

| Parameter |     |     | Description                                    |
| --------- | --- | --- | ---------------------------------------------- |
| <NAME>    |     |     | SpecifiesthenameoftheQoSqueueprofiletocreateor |
configure.Range:1to64alphanumericcharacters,including
period(.),underscore(_),andhyphen(-).
Usage
Queuesinascheduleprofilearenumberedconsecutivelystartingfromzero.Queuezeroisthelowest
priorityqueue.Thelargerthequeuenumber,thehigherprioritythequeuehasinscheduling
algorithms.
Aprofilenamedfactory-defaultisdefinedbydefaultandappliedtoallinterfaces.Itcannotbeedited
ordeleted.Toseeitssettings,usethecommand:
| switch#   | show qos schedule-profile |         | factory-default    |
| --------- | ------------------------- | ------- | ------------------ |
| queue_num | algorithm                 | percent | max-bandwidth_kbps |
| --------- | -------------             | ------- | ------------------ |
| 0         | min-bandwidth             | 2       |                    |
| 1         | min-bandwidth             | 3       |                    |
| 2         | min-bandwidth             | 30      |                    |
| 3         | min-bandwidth             | 10      |                    |
| 4         | min-bandwidth             | 10      |                    |
| 5         | min-bandwidth             | 10      |                    |
| 6         | min-bandwidth             | 15      |                    |
| 7         | min-bandwidth             | 20      |                    |
Aprofilenamedstrictispredefinedandcannotbeeditedordeleted.Thestrictprofileservicesall
queuesofthequeueprofiletowhichitisapplied,usingthestrictpriorityalgorithm.
Ascheduleprofilemustbedefinedonallinterfacesatalltimes.
Therearetwopermittedconfigurationsforascheduleprofile:
1. Allqueuesusethesameschedulingalgorithm(forexample,GMB).
2. Thehighestqueuenumberusesstrictpriority,andallremaining(lower)queuesusethesame
algorithm(forexample,GMB).ThissupportspriorityschedulingbehaviornecessaryfortheIEFT
RFC3246ExpeditedForwardingspecification(https://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc3246).
Onlylimitedchangescanbemadetoanappliedscheduleprofile:
n ThepercentageofaGMBqueue.
n Thebandwidthofastrictqueueoramin-bandwidthqueue.
n ThealgorithmofthehighestnumberedqueuecanbeswappedbetweenGMBandstrict,andvice
versa.
ApplicabletoREST:Anyotherchangeswillresultinanunusablescheduleprofile,andtheswitchwill
reverttothefactory-defaultprofileuntiltheprofileiscorrected.
ThenoformofthiscommandremovesthespecifiedQoSscheduleprofilewhenitisnotapplied.Only
profilesthatarenotcurrentlyappliedtoaninterfacecanberemoved.
Examples
CreatingthescheduleprofileMySchedule:
QoScommands |38

| switch(config)# | qos | schedule-profile |     | MySchedule |
| --------------- | --- | ---------------- | --- | ---------- |
switch(config-schedule)#
DeletingthescheduleprofileMySchedule:
| switch(config)#     | no      | qos schedule-profile |              | MySchedule |
| ------------------- | ------- | -------------------- | ------------ | ---------- |
| Command History     |         |                      |              |            |
| Release             |         |                      | Modification |            |
| 10.07orearlier      |         |                      | --           |            |
| Command Information |         |                      |              |            |
| Platforms           | Command | context              | Authority    |            |
Allplatforms config Administratorsorlocalusergroupmemberswithexecution
rightsforthiscommand.
qos threshold-profile
| qos threshold-profile    |     | <NAME> |     |     |
| ------------------------ | --- | ------ | --- | --- |
| no qos threshold-profile |     | <NAME> |     |     |
Description
CreatesaQoSthresholdprofileandswitchestotheconfig-thresholdcontextfortheprofile.Ifthe
specifiedthresholdprofileexists,thiscommandswitchestotheconfig-thresholdcontextforthe
existingprofile.Thethresholdprofiledeterminestheactiontotakewhenathresholdisexceededfor
eachqueue.
Athresholdprofileiscomposedofupto.Eachqueuedefinestheactiontotakewhenbufferutilization
exceedsaspecificthreshold.
Configurequeueswiththecommandqueue.
ThenoformofthiscommandremovesthespecifiedQoSthresholdprofile.Onlyprofilesthatarenot
currentlyappliedtoaninterfacecanberemoved.
In4100iSwitchSeries,onlyoneprofilecanbecreated.
| Parameter |     |     | Description                                        |     |
| --------- | --- | --- | -------------------------------------------------- | --- |
| <NAME>    |     |     | SpecifiesthenameoftheQoSthresholdprofiletocreateor |     |
configure.Range:1to64alphanumericcharacters,including
period(.),underscore(_),andhyphen(-).
Usage
Queuesinathresholdprofilecanbeanyvalidqueuenumber,althoughitisalsovalidtocreatea
thresholdprofilewithnoqueuesspecified.Queuezeroistheminimumallowedqueuenumber.The
maximumallowedqueuenumbermayvarybyproduct.Forproductssupportingeightqueues,the
AOS-CX10.13QualityofServiceGuide|(4100i,6000,6100SwitchSeries) 39

largestqueuenumberisseven.Ifanappliedthresholdprofilespecifiesconfigurationofaqueue
numberthatisnotinusebasedontheconfiguredqueueprofile,thethresholdconfigurationofthat
unusedqueueisignored.
Examples
Creatingthethresholdprofilemythreshold:
| switch(config)# | qos | threshold-profile |     | mythreshold |
| --------------- | --- | ----------------- | --- | ----------- |
switch(config-threshold)#
DeletingthethresholdprofileMySchedule:
| switch(config)#     | no      | qos threshold-profile |                                    | mythreshold |
| ------------------- | ------- | --------------------- | ---------------------------------- | ----------- |
| Command History     |         |                       |                                    |             |
| Release             |         |                       | Modification                       |             |
| 10.13               |         |                       | Commandenabledon4100iSwitchSeries. |             |
| 10.07orearlier      |         |                       | --                                 |             |
| Command Information |         |                       |                                    |             |
| Platforms           | Command | context               | Authority                          |             |
4100i config Administratorsorlocalusergroupmemberswithexecution
rightsforthiscommand.
qos trust
| qos trust {none|cos|dscp} |     |     |     |     |
| ------------------------- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
no qos trust
Description
ConfiguresoneofthreemodesthatareappliedgloballyonallEthernetinterfacesandLAGsthathave
notappliedtheirowntrustmode.TrustmodedetermineswhetherVLANorIPheadersareusedto
assignCoS
valuestoingresspackets.
Intheconfigcontext:
n Thiscommandsetsthetrustmodethatisgloballyappliedtoallinterfacesthatdonothaveatrust
modeconfigured.
n Thenoformofthiscommandrestoresallinterfacesthatdonotcurrentlyhaveatrustmode
configuredtothedefaultsetting.
Intheconfig-ifcontext:
QoScommands |40

n This command sets the trust mode override for a specific interface.

n The no form of this command clears a trust mode override. The interface then uses the global

setting. This is the only way to remove a trust mode override.

Parameter

Description

none

cos

dscp

Example

Ignores all packet headers. Ingress packets are assigned CoS value
zero.

For 802.1 VLAN-tagged packets, use the priority code point field
from the outermost VLAN header to assign the CoS value. For
untagged packets, the CoS value is assigned to zero. Default.

For IP packets, use the DSCP as the index into the DSCP Map table
to obtain the CoS value for the packet. For non-IP packets, the CoS
value is assigned to zero.

Setting the global trust mode to dscp, which is applied to all interfaces that do not already have an
individual trust mode configured. An override is then applied to interface 2/2/2, and LAG 100, setting
trust mode to cos:

switch(config)# qos trust dscp
switch(config)# interface 2/2/2
switch(config-if)# qos trust cos
switch(config-if)# interface lag 100
switch(config-if)# qos trust cos

WARNING: QoS port remark configurations are not applied when the QoS trust mode is mode. This warning

message is seen if a port trust command other than trust none is attempted when there is already a remark

configuration on the port. To restore the old remark configuration, configure the port trust mode to none.

WARNING: QoS port remark configurations are not applied when the global QoS trust mode is mode. This warning

message is seen if a port no qos trust command is attempted when there is already a remark configuration on the

port and the global trust mode is not none. To re-apply the remark configuration, set the port trust mode to none.

Command History

Release

10.07 or earlier

Command Information

Modification

--

AOS-CX 10.13 Quality of Service Guide | (4100i, 6000, 6100 Switch Series)

41

| Platforms | Command | context | Authority |
| --------- | ------- | ------- | --------- |
Allplatforms config Administratorsorlocalusergroupmemberswithexecution
|     | config-if |     | rightsforthiscommand. |
| --- | --------- | --- | --------------------- |
config-lag-if
| queue action |     |     |     |
| ------------ | --- | --- | --- |
WRED
| 4100i Switch | Series |     |     |
| ------------ | ------ | --- | --- |
queue <0-7> action wred { green | yellow | red } min-threshold <WRED-MIN-LIMIT> percent
| max-threshold | <WRED-MAX-LIMIT> | percent |     |
| ------------- | ---------------- | ------- | --- |
Description
Definesthethresholdsettingsandactionforaspecifiedqueueinathreshold-profile.ForECN,when
queueutilizationexceedsthethresholdvalue,ECT(ECN-CapableTransport)packetswillbeCE
(CongestionEncountered)markedwhentransmitted.
ForWRED,whenqueueutilizationexceedsthethresholdvalue,WREDactionwillrandomlyearly-drop
packetstosignalcongestion.MorethanoneWREDactioncanbeconfiguredonasinglequeuefor
differentpacketcolors.
Thenoformofthiscommandremovesthesettingsforaqueue.
n
Threshold-profileactionsareonlysupportedfortrafficarrivingoninterfacesconfiguredinthetrustdscp
mode.
n ECNisnotsupportedin4100iSwitchSeries.
| Parameter |     |     | Description                         |
| --------- | --- | --- | ----------------------------------- |
| <0-7>     |     |     | Specifiesthequeuenumber.Range:0to7. |
Specifiesthequeueminimumutilizationthresholdvaluefor
<WRED-MIN-LIMIT>
WREDtoprobabilisticallystartdroppingpackets.
<WRED-MAX-LIMIT> Specifiesthequeuemaximumutilizationthresholdvaluefor
WRED,afterwhicheverypacketisdropped.
Examples
Appplicableonlyonthe4100iSwitchSeries
ConfiguringaWREDactiononqueue2forred,yellow,andgreencoloredpackets:
| switch(config)# | qos | threshold-profile | threshprofile |
| --------------- | --- | ----------------- | ------------- |
switch(config-threshold)# queue 4 action wred green min-threshold 50 percent max-
| threshold | 100 percent |     |     |
| --------- | ----------- | --- | --- |
switch(config-threshold)# queue 4 action wred yellow min-threshold 30 percent max-
| threshold | 50 percent |     |     |
| --------- | ---------- | --- | --- |
QoScommands |42

switch(config-threshold)# queue 4 action wred red min-threshold 20 percent max-
| threshold | 30 percent |     |     |
| --------- | ---------- | --- | --- |
Removingathresholdfromqueue7inprofilemythreshold:
| switch(config)#           | qos     | threshold-profile | mythreshold                        |
| ------------------------- | ------- | ----------------- | ---------------------------------- |
| switch(config-threshold)# |         | no queue          | 7                                  |
| Command History           |         |                   |                                    |
| Release                   |         |                   | Modification                       |
| 10.13                     |         |                   | Commandenabledon4100iSwitchSeries. |
| 10.07orearlier            |         |                   | --                                 |
| Command Information       |         |                   |                                    |
| Platforms                 | Command | context           | Authority                          |
4100i config-threshold Administratorsorlocalusergroupmemberswithexecution
rightsforthiscommand.
rate-limit
rate-limit {broadcast|multicast|unknown-unicast|icmp {ip-all|ipv4|ipv6}} <RATE>
{kbps|percent}
| no rate-limit | {broadcast|multicast|unknown-unicast|icmp} |     |     |
| ------------- | ------------------------------------------ | --- | --- |
Description
SetstheamountoftrafficofaspecifictypethatcaningressonanEthernetinterface,oroneachportof
aLAGinterface.RatelimitsareenforcedseparatelyoneachindividualmemberofaLAG,notontheLAG
asawhole.
Thenoformofthiscommandremovesthetrafficlimitforthespecifiedtraffictype.
Parameter Description
{broadcast|multicast|unknown-unicast|icmp {ip-all|ipv4|ipv6}} Specifiesthetypeofingress
traffictowhichtherate
limitapplies:broadcast,
multicast,unknown-
unicast,orICMP.
Themulticastratelimit
affectsmulticastand
broadcasttraffic.The
broadcastratelimitonly
affectsbroadcasttraffic.
Whenbothtypesare
appliedtothesame
interface,broadcast
packetsarelimitedtothe
lowerofthetworate
AOS-CX10.13QualityofServiceGuide|(4100i,6000,6100SwitchSeries) 43

Parameter

<RATE> {kbps|percent}

Examples

Limiting broadcast traffic to 1024kbps on interface 1/1/3:

switch(config)# interface 1/1/3
switch(config-if)# rate-limit broadcast 1024 kbps

Limiting all ICMP IPv4 traffic to 10000kbps on interface 1/1/3:

switch(config)# interface 1/1/3
switch(config-if)# rate-limit icmp ipv4 1024 kbps

Description

values. Layer 2 BPDU
packets, like spanning tree,
are also included in the
multicast rate limit.
Unknown-unicast packets
may be intended for
devices whose addresses
have temporarily aged out
of network forwarding
caches. Configuring rate
limits can help provide
balance between necessary
and flooded traffic.
The ICMP rate limit can be
configured to apply to IPv4,
IPv6, or all IP traffic. Only
one ICMP rate-limit can be
configured at a time.
Applying a new ICMP rate-
limit replaces any previous
ICMP rate-limit.

Specifies the rate limit in
kilobits-per-second or as a
percentage of link
bandwidth. Range: 64 to
10000000 kbps (in steps of
64 kbps), or 1-100 percent.
The actual rate limit will be
approximately equivalent
to the minimum of the two
64-kbps step values that
are closest to the
configured (or kbps-
converted) rate. The actual
applied rate limit can be
verified using the show
interface <IF-NAME> qos
command.
For percentage mode, rate-
limits may be shown as
"not applied" until after
link-up has occurred on the
configured port or LAG.

QoS commands | 44

Configuring a multicast rate-limit as a percentage of link bandwidth:

switch(config)# interface 1/1/3
switch(config-if)# rate-limit multicast 1 percent

Viewing the results of the previous configuration settings:

switch# show interface 1/1/3 qos
Interface 1/1/3 is up

Admin state is up
qos trust cos (global)
qos queue-profile factory-default (global)
qos schedule-profile factory-default (global)
rate-limit unknown-unicast 1024 kbps (1024 actual)
rate-limit broadcast 1024 kbps (1100 actual)
rate-limit multicast 1 percent (10000 actual)
rate-limit icmp ip-all 1024 kbps (1024 actual)

switch# show interface 1/1/3

Interface 1/1/3 is up

Admin state is up
Link state: up for 3 minutes (since Thu Nov 26 17:56:14 UTC 2020)
Link transitions: 1
Description:
Hardware: Ethernet, MAC Address: f8:60:f0:c9:21:bc
MTU 1500
Type 1GbT
Full-duplex
qos trust cos
rate-limit unknown-unicast 1024 kbps (1024 actual)
rate-limit broadcast 1024 kbps (1100 actual)
rate-limit multicast 1 percent (10000 actual)
rate-limit icmp ip-all 1024 kbps (1024 actual)
Speed 1000 Mb/s
Auto-negotiation is on
Energy-Efficient Ethernet is disabled
Flow-control: off
Error-control: off
MDI mode: MDIX
VLAN Mode: access
Access VLAN: 1
Rx

unicast packets
multicast packets
broadcast packets

0 total packets
0
0
0
0 errors
0 CRC/FCS

Tx

1057962 total packets

0
0
1058039

unicast packets
multicast packets
broadcast packets

0 errors
0 collision

0 total bytes

0 dropped
0 pause

366066962 total bytes

0 dropped
0 pause

Command History

AOS-CX 10.13 Quality of Service Guide | (4100i, 6000, 6100 Switch Series)

45

| Release             |         |         |     | Modification           |     |     |     |
| ------------------- | ------- | ------- | --- | ---------------------- | --- | --- | --- |
| 10.13               |         |         |     | Addedpercentparameter. |     |     |     |
| 10.07orearlier      |         |         |     | --                     |     |     |     |
| Command Information |         |         |     |                        |     |     |     |
| Platforms           | Command | context |     | Authority              |     |     |     |
4100i config-if Administratorsorlocalusergroupmemberswithexecution
| 6000 |     |     |     | rightsforthiscommand. |     |     |     |
| ---- | --- | --- | --- | --------------------- | --- | --- | --- |
6100
| show interface |                  | queues |        |     |     |     |     |
| -------------- | ---------------- | ------ | ------ | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| show interface | <INTERFACE-NAME> |        | queues |     |     |     |     |
Description
Displaysinterface-levelqueuestatistics.
| Parameter |     |     |     | Description |     |     |     |
| --------- | --- | --- | --- | ----------- | --- | --- | --- |
<INTERFACE-NAME> SpecifiesthenameofanEthernetportorLAGontheswitch.
Format:member/slot/portorlagnumber.
Usage
Statisticsinclude:
Tx Bytes:Totalbytestransmitted.Thebytecountmayincludepacketheadersandinternalmetadata
n
thatareremovedbeforethepacketistransmitted.Packetheadersaddedwhenthepacketis
transmittedmaynotbeincluded.Thebytecountincludesanypacketssubsequentlydroppedbyan
egressACL.
n Tx Packets:Totalpacketstransmitted.Thecountincludespacketssubsequentlydroppedbyan
egressACL.
n Tx Drops:Totalpacketsdroppedbyanegressqueueduetoinsufficientcapacity.
Examples
Showingqueuestatisticsforinterface1/1/5:
| switch#     | show interface | 1/1/5    | queues |         |     |          |     |
| ----------- | -------------- | -------- | ------ | ------- | --- | -------- | --- |
| Interface   | 1/1/5          | is down  |        |         |     |          |     |
| Admin state | is up          |          |        |         |     |          |     |
|             |                | Tx Bytes | Tx     | Packets |     | Tx Drops |     |
| Q0          |                | 0        |        |         | 0   |          | 3   |
| Q1          |                | 15356    |        |         | 73  |          | 0   |
| Q2          |                | 0        |        |         | 0   |          | 0   |
| Q3          |                | 0        |        |         | 0   |          | 0   |
| Q4          |                | 0        |        |         | 0   |          | 0   |
| Q5          |                | 0        |        |         | 0   |          | 0   |
| Q6          |                | 0        |        |         | 0   |          | 0   |
QoScommands |46

| Q7                                    |                | 0       |          |              | 0   |          | 0   |
| ------------------------------------- | -------------- | ------- | -------- | ------------ | --- | -------- | --- |
| Showingqueuestatisticsforinterfacelag |                |         |          | 1:           |     |          |     |
| switch#                               | show interface | lag     | 1 queues |              |     |          |     |
| Aggregate-name                        | lag1           |         |          |              |     |          |     |
| Aggregated-interfaces                 |                | :       |          |              |     |          |     |
| 1/1/6 1/1/7                           |                |         |          |              |     |          |     |
| Speed 20000                           | Mb/s           |         |          |              |     |          |     |
|                                       | Tx             | Bytes   | Tx       | Packets      |     | Tx Drops |     |
| Q0                                    |                | 0       |          |              | 0   |          | 0   |
| Q1                                    |                | 0       |          |              | 0   |          | 0   |
| Q2                                    |                | 0       |          |              | 0   |          | 0   |
| Q3                                    |                | 0       |          |              | 0   |          | 0   |
| Q4                                    |                | 0       |          |              | 0   |          | 0   |
| Q5                                    |                | 0       |          |              | 0   |          | 0   |
| Q6                                    |                | 0       |          |              | 0   |          | 0   |
| Q7                                    |                | 3450    |          |              | 25  |          | 0   |
| Command History                       |                |         |          |              |     |          |     |
| Release                               |                |         |          | Modification |     |          |     |
| 10.07orearlier                        |                |         |          | --           |     |          |     |
| Command Information                   |                |         |          |              |     |          |     |
| Platforms                             | Command        | context |          | Authority    |     |          |     |
Allplatforms Operator(>)orManager OperatorsorAdministratorsorlocalusergroupmemberswith
|     | (#) |     |     | executionrightsforthiscommand.Operatorscanexecutethis |     |     |     |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | ----------------------------------------------------- | --- | --- | --- |
commandfromtheoperatorcontext(>)only.
| show interface |                  | qos |     |     |     |     |     |
| -------------- | ---------------- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| show interface | <INTERFACE-NAME> |     | qos |     |     |     |     |
Description
ShowsvariousQoSsettingsforaspecificinterface.
| Parameter |     |     |     | Description |     |     |     |
| --------- | --- | --- | --- | ----------- | --- | --- | --- |
<INTERFACE-NAME> Specifiesthenameofaninterfaceontheswitch.Format:
member/slot/portorlagnumber.
Examples
ShowingQoSsettingsforinterface1/1/5:
| switch#     | show interface | 1/1/5 | qos |     |     |     |     |
| ----------- | -------------- | ----- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| Interface   | 1/1/5 is       | up    |     |     |     |     |     |
| Admin state | is up          |       |     |     |     |     |     |
AOS-CX10.13QualityofServiceGuide|(4100i,6000,6100SwitchSeries) 47

| qos trust             | cos (global)    |                 |                 |         |                |
| --------------------- | --------------- | --------------- | --------------- | ------- | -------------- |
| qos queue-profile     |                 | factory-default |                 |         | (global)       |
| qos schedule-profile  |                 |                 | factory-default |         | (global)       |
| qos threshold-profile |                 |                 | test (override) |         |                |
| qos cos               | 5               |                 |                 |         |                |
| qos dscp              | 47              |                 |                 |         |                |
| rate-limit            | unknown-unicast |                 | 1               | percent | (10000 actual) |
| rate-limit            | broadcast       |                 | 40000 kbps      | (40000  | actual)        |
| rate-limit            | icmp            | ip-all          | 10000           | kbps    | (10000 actual) |
ShowingQoSsettingsforatwo-memberlag:
switch#
| show                  | interface       |                 | lag1 qos        |         |                |
| --------------------- | --------------- | --------------- | --------------- | ------- | -------------- |
| Aggregate-name        | lag1            |                 |                 |         |                |
| Admin state           | is              | up              |                 |         |                |
| qos trust             | cos (global)    |                 |                 |         |                |
| qos queue-profile     |                 | factory-default |                 |         | (global)       |
| qos schedule-profile  |                 |                 | test (override) |         |                |
| qos threshold-profile |                 |                 | test (override) |         |                |
| qos cos               | 5               |                 |                 |         |                |
| qos dscp              | 47              |                 |                 |         |                |
| rate-limit            | unknown-unicast |                 | 1               | percent | (10000 actual) |
| rate-limit            | broadcast       |                 | 40000 kbps      | (40000  | actual)        |
| rate-limit            | icmp            | ip-all          | 10000           | kbps    | (10000 actual) |
| Per Interface         | Status          |                 |                 |         |                |
|                       |                 | Maximum         | Bandwidh        |         |                |
| Queue                 | Bandwidth       |                 | Units           |         |                |
--------------------------------
| Q1  |     | 20000 | kbps |     |     |
| --- | --- | ----- | ---- | --- | --- |
| Q4  |     | 30000 | kbps |     |     |
| Q7  |     | 40000 | kbps |     |     |
ShowingQoSsettingsforinterface1/1/5:
| switch# show         | interface       |                 | 1/1/5 qos       |              |                |
| -------------------- | --------------- | --------------- | --------------- | ------------ | -------------- |
| Interface            | 1/1/5           | is up           |                 |              |                |
| Admin state          | is              | up              |                 |              |                |
| qos trust            | cos (global)    |                 |                 |              |                |
| qos queue-profile    |                 | factory-default |                 |              | (global)       |
| qos schedule-profile |                 |                 | factory-default |              | (global)       |
| qos cos              | 5               |                 |                 |              |                |
| qos dscp             | 47              |                 |                 |              |                |
| rate-limit           | unknown-unicast |                 | 1               | percent      | (10000 actual) |
| rate-limit           | broadcast       |                 | 40000 kbps      | (40000       | actual)        |
| rate-limit           | icmp            | ip-all          | 10000           | kbps         | (10000 actual) |
| Command History      |                 |                 |                 |              |                |
| Release              |                 |                 |                 | Modification |                |
| 10.07orearlier       |                 |                 |                 | --           |                |
| Command Information  |                 |                 |                 |              |                |
QoScommands |48

| Platforms | Command | context | Authority |
| --------- | ------- | ------- | --------- |
Allplatforms Operator(>)orManager OperatorsorAdministratorsorlocalusergroupmemberswith
|     | (#) |     | executionrightsforthiscommand.Operatorscanexecutethis |
| --- | --- | --- | ----------------------------------------------------- |
commandfromtheoperatorcontext(>)only.
| show qos          | dscp-map  |     |     |
| ----------------- | --------- | --- | --- |
| show qos dscp-map | [default] |     |     |
Description
DisplaysthecurrentordefaultglobalQoSdscp-map.
| Parameter |     |     | Description                                  |
| --------- | --- | --- | -------------------------------------------- |
| default   |     |     | ShowsthefactorydefaultDSCPcodepointsettings. |
Examples
ShowingthecurrentQoSDSCPmap:
| switch# show | qos dscp-map |          |     |
| ------------ | ------------ | -------- | --- |
| DSCP         | code_point   | cos name |     |
| --------     | ----------   | --- ---- |     |
| 000000       | 0            | 0 CS0    |     |
| 000001       | 1            | 0        |     |
| 000010       | 2            | 0        |     |
| 000011       | 3            | 0        |     |
| 000100       | 4            | 0        |     |
| 000101       | 5            | 0        |     |
...
| 101101 | 45  | 5     |     |
| ------ | --- | ----- | --- |
| 101110 | 46  | 6 new |     |
| 101111 | 47  | 5     |     |
| 110000 | 48  | 6 CS6 |     |
...
| 111101 | 61  | 7   |     |
| ------ | --- | --- | --- |
| 111110 | 62  | 7   |     |
| 111111 | 63  | 7   |     |
ShowingthedefaultQoSDSCPmap:
| switch# show | qos dscp-map | default  |     |
| ------------ | ------------ | -------- | --- |
| DSCP         | code_point   | cos name |     |
| --------     | ----------   | --- ---- |     |
| 000000       | 0            | 0 CS0    |     |
| 000001       | 1            | 0        |     |
| 000010       | 2            | 0        |     |
| 000011       | 3            | 0        |     |
| 000100       | 4            | 0        |     |
| 000101       | 5            | 0        |     |
...
| 101101 | 45  | 5     |     |
| ------ | --- | ----- | --- |
| 101110 | 46  | 5     |     |
| 101111 | 47  | 5     |     |
| 110000 | 48  | 6 CS6 |     |
AOS-CX10.13QualityofServiceGuide|(4100i,6000,6100SwitchSeries) 49

...
| 111100              | 60      | 7       |              |
| ------------------- | ------- | ------- | ------------ |
| 111101              | 61      | 7       |              |
| 111110              | 62      | 7       |              |
| 111111              | 63      | 7       |              |
| Command History     |         |         |              |
| Release             |         |         | Modification |
| 10.07orearlier      |         |         | --           |
| Command Information |         |         |              |
| Platforms           | Command | context | Authority    |
Allplatforms Operator(>)orManager OperatorsorAdministratorsorlocalusergroupmemberswith
executionrightsforthiscommand.Operatorscanexecutethis
(#)
commandfromtheoperatorcontext(>)only.
| show qos               | queue-profile |                            |     |
| ---------------------- | ------------- | -------------------------- | --- |
| show qos queue-profile |               | [<NAME> | factory-default] |     |
Description
Showsthestatusofallqueueprofiles,oraspecificqueueprofile.
| Parameter |     |     | Description |
| --------- | --- | --- | ----------- |
<NAME>
Specifiesthenameofaqueueprofile.Range1to64
alphanumericcharacters,includingperiod(.),underscore(_),and
hyphen(-).
| [factory-default] |     |     | Specifiesthefactorydefaultqueueprofile. |
| ----------------- | --- | --- | --------------------------------------- |
Usage
Thestatusofaqueueprofilecanbe:
n Applied-Theprofileisactivelybeingusedbytheswitch.
n Complete-Theprofilemeetsthecriteriatobeapplied.
n Incomplete-Theprofiledoesnotmeetthecriteriatobeapplied.
Foraqueueprofiletobecompleteandreadytobeapplied:
n Alleightcosvaluesmustbemappedtosomequeue.
n Therecanbeonly2,4,or8queues.
n Thequeuesmustbeconsecutivelynumberedstartingatzero.
Examples
Showingthesettingsofthefactorydefaultqueueprofile:
QoScommands |50

| switch# show        | qos queue-profile |         | factory-default |     |
| ------------------- | ----------------- | ------- | --------------- | --- |
| queue_num           | cos name          |         |                 |     |
| ---------           | --- ----          |         |                 |     |
| 0                   | 1                 |         |                 |     |
| 1                   | 0                 |         |                 |     |
| 2                   | 2                 |         |                 |     |
| 3                   | 3                 |         |                 |     |
| 4                   | 4                 |         |                 |     |
| 5                   | 5                 |         |                 |     |
| 6                   | 6                 |         |                 |     |
| 7                   | 7                 |         |                 |     |
| Command History     |                   |         |                 |     |
| Release             |                   |         | Modification    |     |
| 10.07orearlier      |                   |         | --              |     |
| Command Information |                   |         |                 |     |
| Platforms           | Command           | context | Authority       |     |
Allplatforms Operator(>)orManager OperatorsorAdministratorsorlocalusergroupmemberswith
|     | (#) |     | executionrightsforthiscommand.Operatorscanexecutethis |     |
| --- | --- | --- | ----------------------------------------------------- | --- |
commandfromtheoperatorcontext(>)only.
| show qos                  | schedule-profile |         |                   |           |
| ------------------------- | ---------------- | ------- | ----------------- | --------- |
| show qos schedule-profile |                  | [<NAME> | | factory-default | | strict] |
Description
Showsthestatusofallscheduleprofiles,oraspecificscheduleprofile.
| Parameter |     |     | Description                                           |     |
| --------- | --- | --- | ----------------------------------------------------- | --- |
| <NAME>    |     |     | Specifiesthenameofaqueueorscheduleprofile.Range:1to64 |     |
alphanumericcharacters,includingperiod(.),underscore(_),and
hyphen(-).
| [factory-default] |     |     | Specifiesthefactorydefaultqueueprofile. |     |
| ----------------- | --- | --- | --------------------------------------- | --- |
Usage
Thestatusofascheduleprofilecanbe:
n Applied-Theprofileisactivelybeingusedbyoneormoreports.
Complete-Theprofilemeetsthecriteriatobeapplied.
n
n Incomplete-Theprofiledoesnotmeetthecriteriatobeapplied.
Forascheduleprofiletobecompleteandreadytobeapplieditmusthave:
AOS-CX10.13QualityofServiceGuide|(4100i,6000,6100SwitchSeries) 51

n Analgorithmforeachqueuedefinedbytheappliedqueueprofile.
n Allqueuesmustusethesamealgorithmexceptforthehighestnumberedqueue,whichmaybe
strict.
Example
Showingthestatusofallscheduleprofiles:
| switch# show   | qos schedule-profile |     |     |     |
| -------------- | -------------------- | --- | --- | --- |
| profile_status | profile_name         |     |     |     |
| -------------- | ------------         |     |     |     |
| applied        | MySchedule           |     |     |     |
| complete       | factory-default      |     |     |     |
| complete       | Test                 |     |     |     |
Showingtheconfigurationoffactorydefaultscheduleprofile:
| switch# show           | qos schedule-profile |          | factory-default |            |
| ---------------------- | -------------------- | -------- | --------------- | ---------- |
| Queue                  |                      |          | Maximum         | Bandwidth  |
| Number Algorithm       |                      | Percent  | Bandwidth       | Units      |
| ------- -------------- |                      | -------- | ----------      | ---------- |
| 0 min-bandwidth        |                      | 2        |                 |            |
| 1 min-bandwidth        |                      | 3        |                 |            |
| 2 min-bandwidth        |                      | 30       |                 |            |
| 3 min-bandwidth        |                      | 10       |                 |            |
| 4 min-bandwidth        |                      | 10       |                 |            |
| 5 min-bandwidth        |                      | 10       |                 |            |
| 6 min-bandwidth        |                      | 15       |                 |            |
| 7 min-bandwidth        |                      | 20       |                 |            |
| Command History        |                      |          |                 |            |
| Release                |                      |          | Modification    |            |
| 10.07orearlier         |                      |          | --              |            |
| Command Information    |                      |          |                 |            |
| Platforms              | Command              | context  | Authority       |            |
Allplatforms Operator(>)orManager OperatorsorAdministratorsorlocalusergroupmemberswith
executionrightsforthiscommand.Operatorscanexecutethis
(#)
commandfromtheoperatorcontext(>)only.
| show qos                   | threshold-profile |          |     |     |
| -------------------------- | ----------------- | -------- | --- | --- |
| show qos threshold-profile |                   | [<NAME>] |     |     |
Description
Showsthestatusofallthresholdprofiles,oraspecificthresholdprofile.
QoScommands |52

| Parameter |     |     | Description                                     |
| --------- | --- | --- | ----------------------------------------------- |
| <NAME>    |     |     | Specifiesthenameofathresholdprofile.Range:1to64 |
alphanumericcharacters,includingperiod(.),underscore(_),and
hyphen(-).
Usage
Statusfieldsare:
applied:Thethresholdprofileisappliedtoallconfiguredports.
n
n partiallyapplied:Thethresholdprofileisappliedtosomeconfiguredportsbutfailedonother
configuredports.
notapplied:Thethresholdprofilecouldnotbeappliedtoanyconfiguredports.
n
n blankfield:Thethresholdprofileisnotappliedintheconfiguration(globallyorasaportoverride).
Forthe4100iSwitchSeries,youcannotapplythresholdprofileatthegloballevel.Also,thethresholdprofile
cannotbeappliedon10Gports.
Examples
Showingthestatusofthethresholdprofile:
| switch# show           | qos threshold-profile |               |                                    |
| ---------------------- | --------------------- | ------------- | ---------------------------------- |
| profile_status         |                       | profile_name  |                                    |
| ---------------------- |                       | ------------  |                                    |
| applied                |                       | threshprofile |                                    |
| Command History        |                       |               |                                    |
| Release                |                       |               | Modification                       |
| 10.13                  |                       |               | Commandenabledon4100iSwitchSeries. |
| 10.07orearlier         |                       |               | --                                 |
| Command Information    |                       |               |                                    |
| Platforms              | Command               | context       | Authority                          |
4100i Operator(>)orManager OperatorsorAdministratorsorlocalusergroupmemberswith
|     | (#) |     | executionrightsforthiscommand.Operatorscanexecutethis |
| --- | --- | --- | ----------------------------------------------------- |
commandfromtheoperatorcontext(>)only.
| show qos       | trust     |     |     |
| -------------- | --------- | --- | --- |
| show qos trust | [default] |     |     |
Description
ShowstheglobalQoStrustsettings,orthefactorydefaultsettings.
AOS-CX10.13QualityofServiceGuide|(4100i,6000,6100SwitchSeries) 53

| Parameter |     |     |     | Description                             |
| --------- | --- | --- | --- | --------------------------------------- |
| default   |     |     |     | ShowsthefactorydefaultQoStrustsettings. |
Examples
ShowingthecurrentQoStrustsettings:
| switch# | show  | qos | trust |     |
| ------- | ----- | --- | ----- | --- |
| qos     | trust | cos |       |     |
ShowingthedefaultQoStrustsettings:
| switch#        | show        | qos     | trust default |              |
| -------------- | ----------- | ------- | ------------- | ------------ |
| qos            | trust       | cos     |               |              |
| Command        | History     |         |               |              |
| Release        |             |         |               | Modification |
| 10.07orearlier |             |         |               | --           |
| Command        | Information |         |               |              |
| Platforms      |             | Command | context       | Authority    |
Allplatforms OperatorsorAdministratorsorlocalusergroupmemberswith
Operator(>)orManager
|     |     | (#) |     | executionrightsforthiscommand.Operatorscanexecutethis |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | ----------------------------------------------------- |
commandfromtheoperatorcontext(>)only.
| strict    | queue |       |                |                       |
| --------- | ----- | ----- | -------------- | --------------------- |
| strict    | queue | <0-7> | [max-bandwidth | <RATE> [kbps|percent] |
| no strict | queue | <0-7> | [max-bandwidth | <RATE> [kbps|percent] |
Description
Assignsthestrictpriorityalgorithmtoaqueue.Strictpriorityservicesallpacketswaitinginaqueue,
beforeservicingthepacketsinlowerpriorityqueues.
Egressqueueshapingcanbeconfiguredusingthemax-bandwidthoptiontolimittheamountoftraffic
transmittedperoutputqueue.Thebufferassociatedwitheachegressqueuestorestheexcesstrafficto
smooththeoutputrate.Sustainedratesoftrafficabovethemaximumbandwidthwilleventuallyfillthe
outputqueue,causingtaildrops.Useshow interface <IF-NAME> queuestodetermineifanytail-drop
errorshaveoccurred.
Thenoformofthiscommandremovesthequeueconfigurationfromthescheduleprofile.Toremove
onlyegressqueueshaping,re-enterthestrictqueuecommandwithoutthemax-bandwidth
parameter.
QoScommands |54

| Parameter      |     |     | Description                              |     |
| -------------- | --- | --- | ---------------------------------------- | --- |
| <QUEUE-NUMBER> |     |     | Specifiesthenumberofthequeue.Range:0to7. |     |
max-bandwidth <BANDWIDTH> SpecifiesthemaximumbandwidthallowedonthequeueinKbps.
Range:468to100000000.Alternatively,themaximumbandwidth
ratecanalsobeconfiguredonthequeueasapercentageofthe
portshapeorlinkbandwidthifaportshapeisnotconfigured.The
allowedrangeis1-100.
Usage
Eitherallthequeuesofthescheduleprofilecanbestrictorjustthehighestnumberedqueue.When
appliedtoaLAG,eachmemberEthernetportindependentlyschedulesitsegresstransmissionsusing
thestrictsettings.Onlylimitedchangescanbemadetoastrictqueuethatispartofanappliedschedule
profile:
n Themax-bandwidthsettings.
Thehighestnumberedqueuecanbeswappedbetweenstrictandmin-bandwith
n
Anyotherchangesorremovingaqueue(no strict queue)willresultinanunusablescheduleprofile.If
thatscheduleprofileisappliedintheinterfacecontext,theswitchwillreverttothescheduleprofile
appliedintheglobalcontextuntiltheprofileiscorrected.Ifthatscheduleprofileisappliedintheglobal
context,theswitchwillreverttousingthefactory-defaultprofileuntiltheprofileiscorrected.
Itispossibleforthefollowingerrorstooccur:
| n The max-bandwidth | cannot | be greater | than | 100 percent. |
| ------------------- | ------ | ---------- | ---- | ------------ |
Thiserroroccurswhenamax-bandwidthvaluegreaterthan100percentisconfiguredonaqueue.
| n The max-bandwidth | cannot | be less | than <NUM> | kbps. |
| ------------------- | ------ | ------- | ---------- | ----- |
Thiserroroccurswhenakbpsmax-bandwidthvaluelessthanthesupportedminimumkbpsshape
valueisconfiguredonaqueue.Thesupportedminimumkbpsshapevaluecanberetrievedusingthe
show capacitiescommand.
Examples
Assigningstrictprioritytoqueue7inthescheduleprofileMySchedule:
| switch(config)#          | qos schedule-profile |        | MySchedule |     |
| ------------------------ | -------------------- | ------ | ---------- | --- |
| switch(config-schedule)# |                      | strict | queue 7    |     |
Deletingstrictpriorityfromqueue7inthescheduleprofileMySchedule:
| switch(config)#          | qos schedule-profile |           | MySchedule |     |
| ------------------------ | -------------------- | --------- | ---------- | --- |
| switch(config-schedule)# |                      | no strict | queue      | 7   |
Assigningstrictprioritytoqueue7inthescheduleprofileMySchedulewithamaximumbandwidthof
10000Kbps:
AOS-CX10.13QualityofServiceGuide|(4100i,6000,6100SwitchSeries) 55

| switch(config)# | qos | schedule-profile | MySchedule |     |
| --------------- | --- | ---------------- | ---------- | --- |
switch(config-schedule)#
|                     |         | strict queue | 7 max-bandwidth                   | 10000 kbps |
| ------------------- | ------- | ------------ | --------------------------------- | ---------- |
| Command History     |         |              |                                   |            |
| Release             |         |              | Modification                      |            |
| 10.13               |         |              | Addedthekbpsandpercentparameters. |            |
| 10.07orearlier      |         |              | --                                |            |
| Command Information |         |              |                                   |            |
| Platforms           | Command | context      | Authority                         |            |
config-schedule-<NAME>
Allplatforms Administratorsorlocalusergroupmemberswithexecution
rightsforthiscommand.
QoScommands |56

Chapter 5

Support and Other Resources

Support and Other Resources

Accessing Aruba Support

Aruba Support Services

https://www.arubanetworks.com/support-services/

AOS-CX Switch Software Documentation
Portal

https://www.arubanetworks.com/techdocs/AOS-CX/help_
portal/Content/home.htm

Aruba Support Portal

https://asp.arubanetworks.com/

North America telephone

1-800-943-4526 (US & Canada Toll-Free Number)

+1-408-754-1200 (Primary - Toll Number)

+1-650-385-6582 (Backup - Toll Number - Use only when all other

numbers are not working)

International telephone

https://www.arubanetworks.com/support-services/contact-
support/

Be sure to collect the following information before contacting Support:

n Technical support registration number (if applicable)

n Product name, model or version, and serial number

n Operating system name and version

n Firmware version

n Error messages

n Product-specific reports and logs

n Add-on products or components

n Third-party products or components

Other useful sites

Other websites that can be used to find information:

https://community.arubanetworks.com/

https://www.arubanetworks.com/techdocs/AOS-CX/help_portal/Content/home.htm

Airheads social
forums and
Knowledge Base

AOS-CX Switch
Software
Documentation
Portal

Aruba Hardware
Documentation

https://www.arubanetworks.com/techdocs/hardware/DocumentationPortal/Content/home.
htm

AOS-CX 10.13 Quality of Service Guide | (4100i, 6000, 6100 Switch Series)

57

andTranslations
Portal
| Arubasoftware | https://asp.arubanetworks.com/downloads |     |
| ------------- | --------------------------------------- | --- |
| Software      | https://lms.arubanetworks.com/          |     |
licensing
End-of-Life https://www.arubanetworks.com/support-services/end-of-life/
information
| ArubaDeveloper | https://developer.arubanetworks.com/ |     |
| -------------- | ------------------------------------ | --- |
Hub
| Accessing | Updates |     |
| --------- | ------- | --- |
YoucanaccessupdatesfromtheArubaSupportPortalortheHPEMyNetworkingWebsite.
| Aruba | Support | Portal |
| ----- | ------- | ------ |
https://asp.arubanetworks.com/downloads
IfyouareunabletofindyourproductintheArubaSupportPortal,youmayneedtosearchMy
Networking,whereoldernetworkingproductscanbefound:
My Networking
https://www.hpe.com/networking/support
Toviewandupdateyourentitlements,andtolinkyourcontractsandwarrantieswithyourprofile,goto
theHewlettPackardEnterpriseSupportCenterMore Information on Access to Support Materials
page:
https://support.hpe.com/portal/site/hpsc/aae/home/
AccesstosomeupdatesmightrequireproductentitlementwhenaccessedthroughtheHewlettPackard
EnterpriseSupportCenter.YoumusthaveanHPPassportsetupwithrelevantentitlements.
Somesoftwareproductsprovideamechanismforaccessingsoftwareupdatesthroughtheproduct
interface.Reviewyourproductdocumentationtoidentifytherecommendedsoftwareupdatemethod.
TosubscribetoeNewslettersandalerts:
https://asp.arubanetworks.com/notifications/subscriptions(requiresanactiveArubaSupportPortal
(ASP)accounttomanagesubscriptions).SecuritynoticesareviewablewithoutanASPaccount.
| Warranty | Information |     |
| -------- | ----------- | --- |
Toviewwarrantyinformationforyourproduct,gotohttps://www.arubanetworks.com/support-
services/product-warranties/.
| Regulatory | Information |     |
| ---------- | ----------- | --- |
Toviewtheregulatoryinformationforyourproduct,viewtheSafetyandComplianceInformationfor
Server,Storage,Power,Networking,andRackProducts,availableathttps://www.hpe.com/support/Safety-
Compliance-EnterpriseProducts
| Additional | regulatory | information |
| ---------- | ---------- | ----------- |
SupportandOtherResources|58

Aruba is committed to providing our customers with information about the chemical substances in our
products as needed to comply with legal requirements, environmental data (company programs,
product recycling, energy efficiency), and safety information and compliance data, (RoHS and WEEE). For
more information, see https://www.arubanetworks.com/company/about-us/environmental-citizenship/.

Documentation Feedback

Aruba is committed to providing documentation that meets your needs. To help us improve the
documentation, send any errors, suggestions, or comments to Documentation Feedback (docsfeedback-
switching@hpe.com). When submitting your feedback, include the document title, part number, edition,
and publication date located on the front cover of the document. For online help content, include the
product name, product version, help edition, and publication date located on the legal notices page.

AOS-CX 10.13 Quality of Service Guide | (4100i, 6000, 6100 Switch Series)

59