AOS-CX 10.06 Quality of Service Guide
6100 Switch Series

Part Number: 5200-7778
Published: January 2021
Edition: 1

© Copyright 2021 Hewlett Packard Enterprise Development LP

Notices

The information contained herein is subject to change without notice. The only warranties for Hewlett
Packard Enterprise products and services are set forth in the express warranty statements accompanying
such products and services. Nothing herein should be construed as constituting an additional warranty.
Hewlett Packard Enterprise shall not be liable for technical or editorial errors or omissions contained herein.

Confidential computer software. Valid license from Hewlett Packard Enterprise required for possession, use,
or copying. Consistent with FAR 12.211 and 12.212, Commercial Computer Software, Computer Software
Documentation, and Technical Data for Commercial Items are licensed to the U.S. Government under
vendor's standard commercial license.

Links to third-party websites take you outside the Hewlett Packard Enterprise website. Hewlett Packard
Enterprise has no control over and is not responsible for information outside the Hewlett Packard Enterprise
website.

Acknowledgments

Intel®, Itanium®, Optane™, Pentium®, Xeon®, Intel Inside®, and the Intel Inside logo are trademarks of Intel
Corporation in the U.S. and other countries.

Microsoft® and Windows® are either registered trademarks or trademarks of Microsoft Corporation in the
United States and/or other countries.

Adobe® and Acrobat® are trademarks of Adobe Systems Incorporated.

Java® and Oracle® are registered trademarks of Oracle and/or its affiliates.

UNIX® is a registered trademark of The Open Group.

All third-party marks are property of their respective owners.

Contents

Chapter 1 About this document...................................................................... 5
Applicable products........................................................................................................................................5
Latest version available online......................................................................................................................5
Command syntax notation conventions..................................................................................................... 5
About the examples....................................................................................................................................... 6
Identifying switch ports and interfaces .......................................................................................................6

Chapter 2 QoS overview ................................................................................... 8
End-to-end QoS behavior.............................................................................................................................. 8
QoS on the switch........................................................................................................................................ 10
QoS trust............................................................................................................................................ 10
Port rate limiting............................................................................................................................... 10
Queue profiles................................................................................................................................... 10
Schedule profiles...............................................................................................................................11
Egress queue shaping.......................................................................................................................11
Terms.................................................................................................................................................. 11

Chapter 3 QoS configuration .........................................................................13
Configuring QoS........................................................................................................................................... 13
Configuring expedited forwarding for VoIP traffic................................................................................... 14
Configuring rate limiting..............................................................................................................................15
Configuring egress queue shaping............................................................................................................ 17
Supporting Ethernet 802.1D Class of Service........................................................................................... 17
Monitoring queue operation.......................................................................................................................18

Chapter 4 QoS commands ..............................................................................19
apply qos....................................................................................................................................................19
min-bandwidth...........................................................................................................................................21
name queue..................................................................................................................................................22
qos cos........................................................................................................................................................ 22
qos dscp...................................................................................................................................................... 23
qos dscp-map............................................................................................................................................. 24
qos queue-profile..................................................................................................................................26
qos schedule-profile........................................................................................................................... 27
qos trust....................................................................................................................................................28
rate-limit..................................................................................................................................................29
show interface queues.........................................................................................................................31
show interface qos............................................................................................................................... 33
show qos dscp-map..................................................................................................................................33
show qos queue-profile...................................................................................................................... 35
show qos schedule-profile................................................................................................................35
show qos trust........................................................................................................................................ 36
strict queue............................................................................................................................................. 37

Chapter 5 Support and other resources...................................................... 39

Contents

3

Accessing Aruba Support............................................................................................................................ 39
Accessing updates........................................................................................................................................ 39
Warranty information.................................................................................................................................. 40
Regulatory information............................................................................................................................... 40
Documentation feedback............................................................................................................................ 40

4

AOS-CX 10.06 Quality of Service Guide

Chapter 1
About this document

This document describes features of the AOS-CX network operating system. It is intended for administrators
responsible for installing, configuring, and managing Aruba switches on a network.

Applicable products
This document applies to the following products:

Aruba 6100 Switch Series (JL675A, JL676A, JL677A, JL678A, JL679A)

Latest version available online
Updates to this document can occur after initial publication. For the latest versions of product
documentation, see the links provided in Support and other resources.

Command syntax notation conventions

Convention

example-text

Usage

Identifies commands and their options and operands, code examples,
filenames, pathnames, and output displayed in a command window.
Items that appear like the example text in the previous column are to be
entered exactly as shown and are required unless enclosed in brackets
([ ]).

example-text

In code and screen examples, indicates text entered by a user.

Any of the following:

• <example-text>

• <example-text>

• example-text

•

example-text

|

{ }

Identifies a placeholder—such as a parameter or a variable—that you
must substitute with an actual value in a command or in code:

•

•

For output formats where italic text cannot be displayed, variables
are enclosed in angle brackets (< >). Substitute the text—including
the enclosing angle brackets—with an actual value.

For output formats where italic text can be displayed, variables might
or might not be enclosed in angle brackets. Substitute the text
including the enclosing angle brackets, if any, with an actual value.

Vertical bar. A logical OR that separates multiple items from which you
can choose only one.

Any spaces that are on either side of the vertical bar are included for
readability and are not a required part of the command syntax.

Braces. Indicates that at least one of the enclosed items is required.

Table Continued

Chapter 1 About this document

5

Convention

Usage

[ ]

… or

...

Brackets. Indicates that the enclosed item or items are optional.

Ellipsis:

•

•

In code and screen examples, a vertical or horizontal ellipsis indicates
an omission of information.

In syntax using brackets and braces, an ellipsis indicates items that
can be repeated. When an item followed by ellipses is enclosed in
brackets, zero or more items can be specified.

About the examples
Examples in this document are representative and might not match your particular switch or environment.

The slot and port numbers in this document are for illustration only and might be unavailable on your
switch.

Understanding the CLI prompts

When illustrating the prompts in the command line interface (CLI), this document uses the generic term
switch, instead of the host name of the switch. For example:

switch>

The CLI prompt indicates the current command context. For example:

switch>

Indicates the operator command context.

switch#

Indicates the manager command context.

switch(CONTEXT-NAME)#

Indicates the configuration context for a feature. For example:

switch(config-if)#

Identifies the interface context.

Variable information in CLI prompts

In certain configuration contexts, the prompt may include variable information. For example, when in
the VLAN configuration context, a VLAN number appears in the prompt:

switch(config-vlan-100)#

When referring to this context, this document uses the syntax:

switch(config-vlan-<VLAN-ID>)#

Where <VLAN-ID> is a variable representing the VLAN number.

Identifying switch ports and interfaces
Physical ports on the switch and their corresponding logical software interfaces are identified using the
format:

member/slot/port

6

AOS-CX 10.06 Quality of Service Guide

On the 6100 Switch Series

• member: Always 1. VSF is not supported on this switch.

•

slot: Always 1. This is not a modular switch, so there are no slots.

• port: Physical number of a port on the switch.

For example, the logical interface 1/1/4 in software is associated with physical port 4 on the switch.

Chapter 1 About this document

7

Chapter 2
QoS overview

Quality of Service (QoS) enables network administrators to customize how different types of traffic are
serviced on a network, taking into account the unique characteristics of each traffic type and its importance
within an organization's infrastructure. QoS ensures uniform and efficient traffic handling, keeping the most
important traffic moving at an acceptable speed, regardless of current bandwidth usage. It also provides
methods for administrators to control the priority settings of inbound traffic arriving at each network device.

End-to-end QoS behavior
The QoS settings on each network device must be aligned to achieve the desired end-to-end QoS behavior
for a network. Three service types can be used to categorize and prioritize network traffic:

• Best Effort Service

• Ethernet Class of Service (CoS)

•

Internet Differentiated Services (DiffServ)

For a network as a whole, it is best to select one service type to use as the primary end-to-end behavior, and
then use the other two service types as needed.

Best effort service

This is the simplest service type. All traffic is treated equally in a first-come, first-served manner. If the traffic
load is low in relation to the capacity of the network links, then there is no need for the administrative
complexity and costs of maintaining a more complex end-to-end policy. This is sometimes called over-
provisioning, as all link speeds are much higher than peak loads on the network.

Class of Service

Class of Service (CoS) is a method for classifying network traffic at layer 2 by marking 802.1Q VLAN Ethernet
frames with one of eight service classes.

CoS

Traffic type

Example protocols

7

6

5

4

3

2

0

1

Network Control

STP, PVST

Internetwork Control

BGP, OSPF, PIM

Voice (<10ms latency)

VoIP(UDP)

Video (<100ms latency)

RTP

Critical Applications

SQL RPC, SNMP

Excellent Effort

NFS, SMB

Best Effort

Background

HTTP, TELNET

SMTP, IMAP

CoS 1 is deliberately set as the lowest CoS. This enables a traffic service level below the default (best effort)
traffic level to be specified.

The 3-bit Priority Code Point (PCP) field within the 16-bit Ethernet VLAN tag is used to mark the CoS.

8

AOS-CX 10.06 Quality of Service Guide

 +--------+--------+--------+----------+-----------+--------
 | mac-da | mac-sa | 0x8100 | VLAN tag | ethertype | data...
 +--------+--------+--------+----------+-----------+--------
                           /            \
                          /              \
                         /                \
                      +-----+-----+---------+
                      | pcp | dei | vlan_id |
                      +-----+-----+---------+
Differentiated services
Differentiated services (DiffServ) is a method for classifying network traffic at layer 3 by marking packets
with one of 64 different service classes. Services classes are identified by the Differentiated services Code
Point (DSCP) value. Some common DSCP values are:
| DSCP       | Name             | Service class           | RFC  |
| ---------- | ---------------- | ----------------------- | ---- |
| 56         | CS6              | Network Control         | 2474 |
| 46         | EF               | Telephony               | 3246 |
| 40         | CS5              | Signaling               | 2474 |
| 34, 36, 38 | AF41, AF42, AF43 | Multimedia Conferencing | 2597 |
| 32         | CS4              | Real-Time Interactive   | 2474 |
| 26, 28, 30 | AF31, AF32, AF33 | Multimedia Streaming    | 2597 |
| 24         | CS3              | Broadcast Video         | 2474 |
| 18, 20, 22 | AF21, AF22, AF23 | Low-Latency Data        | 2597 |
| 16         | CS2              | OAM                     | 2474 |
| 00         | CS0,BE,DF        | Best Effort             | 2474 |
| 10, 12, 14 | AF11, AF12, AF13 | Bulk Data               | 2597 |
| 08         | CS1              | Low-Priority Data       | 3662 |
DSCP CS1 (08) CoS 1 is deliberately set as the lowest priority. This enables a traffic service level below the
standard (best effort or default forwarding) level to be specified.
The DSCP value is carried within the IPv4 DSCP field or the upper 6-bits of the 8-bit IPv6 Traffic Class (TC)
field.
      +-----+------+-----+-----+----+--------+-----+-------+--------+-------+-------+--------
IPv4  | ver | dscp | ecn | len | id | offset | ttl | proto | chksum | ip-sa | ip-da | data...
      +-----+------+-----+-----+----+--------+-----+-------+--------+-------+-------+--------

          +------+-----+
          | dscp | ecn |
          +------+-----+
           \         /
            \       /
       +-----+-----+-----+-------+-------------+-----------+-------+-------+--------
 IPv6  | ver | tc  | len | label | next_header | hop_limit | ip-sa | ip-da | data...
       +-----+-----+-----+-------+-------------+-----------+-------+-------+--------
Chapter 2 QoS overview 9

QoS on the switch
There are five key stages a packet passes through when traversing a switch: ingress, prioritization,
destination determination, egress queuing, and transmission.

QoS trust

Traffic priorities for networks can be carried in VLAN tags using the CoS Priority Code Point (PCP), or in IP
packet headers using the Differentiated Services Code Point (DSCP). Whether these priorities affect how
traffic is serviced depends on how the QoS trust mode is configured on the switch. The QoS trust mode
specifies how the switch assigns values to ingress packets and can be set globally for all interfaces or
individually for each interface. By default the trust mode is set to cos, meaning the existing QoS information
in the packet will be trusted. The priority values of DSCP packets are mapped to corresponding CoS values. If
the trust mode is set to none the CoS value in the incoming packet will be marked as zero.

Dynamic QoS trust mode

The device profile feature can dynamically set the QoS trust mode on an interface based on the LLDP
information exchanged with a link partner. The device profile's trust mode temporarily overrides the static
trust mode configured for an interface. The override remains in place as long as that link partner is
connected and its link state is up. Use command show interface IFNAME qos to view the current QoS
trust mode for an interface.

Port rate limiting

Port rate limiting helps control undesirable traffic. Its purpose is to allow enough broadcast, multicast, and
ICMP rate-limit traffic for the network to function properly, while preventing flooding and traffic storms.

NOTE: Unknown unicast rate limiting is supported.

Queue profiles

A queue profile defines the queues that are associated with an interface to control the transmission of
packets. Each profile supports up to eight queues, numbered 0 to 7. The larger the queue number, the
higher its priority during transmission scheduling. Packets are assigned to the queue based on CoS value.
The queue profile defines queue number to CoS mapping. The factory-default map cross maps the 0
and 1 values.

switch# show qos queue-profile factory-default
queue_num cos         name
--------- ----------- ----
0         1           Scavenger_and_backup_data
1         0
2         2
3         3
4         4
5         5
6         6
7         7

Commonly used commands for working with QoS queues are as follows:

10

AOS-CX 10.06 Quality of Service Guide

• qos queue-profile: Creates an empty queue-profile and enters the profile configuration context.

• name queue: Assigns a descriptive name to a queue.

• map queue: Maps queue to CoS.

• apply qos queue-profile: Applies a queue-profile globally to all interfaces.

Schedule profiles

A schedule profile determines the order in which queues are selected for transmission, and the amount of
service available for each queue. A schedule profile must be configured on every interface at all times. A
schedule profile can be applied globally to all interfaces, or only to specific interfaces. The switch described
in this guide supports the Guaranteed Minimum Bandwidth (GMB), Strict, and Strict EQS scheduling
algorithms.

The switch described in this guide supports 8 queues.

switch# show qos schedule-profile
profile_status profile_name
-------------- ------------
applied        factory-default
complete       strict

switch# show qos schedule-profile factory-default
queue_num algorithm     percent max-bandwidth_kbps
--------- ------------- ------- ------------------
0         min-bandwidth 2
1         min-bandwidth 3
2         min-bandwidth 30
3         min-bandwidth 10
4         min-bandwidth 10
5         min-bandwidth 10
6         min-bandwidth 15
7         min-bandwidth 20

Egress queue shaping

Egress queue shaping limits the amount of traffic transmitted per strict output queue. The buffer associated
with each egress queue stores excess traffic to absorb bursts and smooths the output rate. For example, an
administrator might limit strict-priority queue traffic to prevent low-priority queue starvation in the event
that a device inappropriately sends too many higher-priority packets.

Egress queue shaping can be configured on an Ethernet port or on a link aggregation group (LAG). To
configure egress queue shaping, define a schedule profile with the strict priority algorithm assigned to each
queue.

Terms

Class

For networking, a set of packets sharing a common characteristic. For example, all IPv4 packets.

Code point

The name of a packet header field, or the value carried within a packet header field:

Example 1: Priority code point (PCP) is the name of a field in the IEEE 802.1Q VLAN tag.

Example 2: Differentiated services code point (DSCP) is the name of a field carried within the DS field of
an IP packet header.

Chapter 2 QoS overview

11

Class of service (CoS)

A 3-bit value used to mark packets with one of eight classes (levels of priority). It is carried within the
priority code point (PCP) field of the IEEE 802.1Q VLAN tag.

Differentiated services code point (DSCP)

A 6-bit value used to mark packets for different per-hop behavior as originally defined by IETF RFC 2474.
It is carried within the differentiated services (DS) field of the IPv4 or IPv6 header.

Metadata

Information labels associated with each packet in the switch, separate from the packet headers and
data. These labels are used by the switch in its handling of the packet. For example: arrival port, egress
port, VLAN membership, and local priority.

Priority code point (PCP)

The name of a 3-bit field in the IEEE 802.1Q VLAN tag. It carries the CoS value to mark a packet with one
of eight classes (priority levels).

Quality of service (QoS)

General term used when describing or measuring performance. For networking, it means how different
classes of packets are treated when traversing a network or device.

Traffic class (TC)

General term for a set of packets sharing a common characteristic. It used to be the name of an 8-bit
field in the IPv6 header originally defined by IETF RFC 2460. This field name was changed to
differentiated services by IETF RFC 2474.

Type of service (ToS)

General term when there are different levels of treatment (fare class). It used to be the name of an 8-bit
field in the IPv4 header originally defined by IETF RFC 791. This field name was changed to differentiated
services by IETF RFC 2474.

12

AOS-CX 10.06 Quality of Service Guide

Chapter 3
QoS configuration

Configuring QoS

Procedure

1. Configure how values are assigned to ingress packets with the commands qos dscp-map, and qos

trust.

2. Optionally, add a rate limit for ingress traffic on one or more interfaces with the command rate-limit.

3. If you do not want to use the default QoS queue profile for queue mapping, create one or more custom
queue profiles with the command qos queue-profile. For each queue in a custom queue profile:

a. Assign a CoS value mapping with the command .

b. Optionally, define a descriptive name with the command name queue. All queues must be mapped to

a CoS value, and the queues selected for use must be in contiguous order starting at 0.

4. If you do not want to use the default QoS schedule profile to determine the order in which queues are

selected to transmit a packet, create one or more custom schedule profiles with the command . For each
queue in a custom schedule queue profile, define scheduling priority with the commands and min-
bandwidth.

5. Optionally for strict queues, configure egress queue shaping to limit egress bandwidth on an interface to

a value that is less than its line rate. Use the max-bandwidth parameter of the command.

6. Activate QoS settings with the command . This command lets you apply a queue profile and schedule

profile globally to all interfaces, or a schedule profile override to individual interfaces.

7. View QoS configuration settings with the provided show commands.

Examples

The following example creates a queue profile named Q1 and assigns queue to CoS value mapping:

Queue

CoS Value

0

1

2

3

4

5

6

7

0

1

2

3

4

5

6

7

Chapter 3 QoS configuration

13

Creates a schedule profile named S1 and assigns minimum bandwidth for each queue with a corresponding
percentage value:

Queue

Minimum bandwidth (pecentage)

0

1

2

3

4

5

6

7

5

5

10

10

20

20

10

20

Applies Q1 and S1 to all interfaces that do not have a QoS override applied.

switch(config)# qos trust cos
switch(config)# qos queue-profile Q1
switch(config-queue)# map queue 0 cos 0
switch(config-queue)# map queue 1 cos 1
switch(config-queue)# map queue 2 cos 2
switch(config-queue)# map queue 3 cos 3
switch(config-queue)# map queue 4 cos 4
switch(config-queue)# map queue 5 cos 5
switch(config-queue)# map queue 6 cos 6
switch(config-queue)# map queue 7 cos 7
switch(config)# qos schedule-profile S1
switch(config-schedule)# min-bandwidth queue 0 percent 5
switch(config-schedule)# min-bandwidth queue 1 percent 5
switch(config-schedule)# min-bandwidth queue 2 percent 10
switch(config-schedule)# min-bandwidth queue 3 percent 10
switch(config-schedule)# min-bandwidth queue 4 percent 20
switch(config-schedule)# min-bandwidth queue 5 percent 20
switch(config-schedule)# min-bandwidth queue 6 percent 10
switch(config-schedule)# min-bandwidth queue 7 percent 20
switch(config-schedule)# apply qos queue-profile Q1 schedule-profile S1

Configuring expedited forwarding for VoIP traffic
Voice over IP (VoIP) traffic is delay and jitter sensitive. For optimum transmission of VoIP traffic, dwell time in
network devices must be kept to a minimum and all network devices in the data path must have identical
per-hop behaviors. To configure a dedicated queue on the switch to handle VoIP traffic with priority service
before all other queues, follow these steps.

Prerequisites
This scenario assumes that VoIP packets are uniquely identified using DiffServ code point 46, Expedited
Forwarding (EF).

Procedure

1. Map DSCP EF packets exclusively to CoS value 6. The default DSCP map has eight code points (40 through
47), that are mapped to CoS value 5. To reserve CoS value 6 for VoIP traffic, the other code points must
be reassigned. In this scenario, CoS value 6 is used for all reassignments, including for code point 40, Call
Signaling protocol (CS5).

14

AOS-CX 10.06 Quality of Service Guide

switch(config)# qos dscp-map 40 cos 6 name CS5
switch(config)# qos dscp-map 41 cos 6
switch(config)# qos dscp-map 42 cos 6
switch(config)# qos dscp-map 43 cos 6
switch(config)# qos dscp-map 44 cos 6
switch(config)# qos dscp-map 45 cos 6

2. Queue 7 is the highest priority queue, so for best throughput, create a queue profile that maps CoS 5 to

queue 7.

switch(config)# qos queue-profile ef_priority
switch(config-queue)# name queue 7 Voice_Priority_Queue
switch(config-queue)# map queue 7 cos 5
switch(config-queue)# map queue 6 cos 7
switch(config-queue)# map queue 5 cos 6
switch(config-queue)# map queue 4 cos 4
switch(config-queue)# map queue 3 cos 3
switch(config-queue)# map queue 2 cos 2
switch(config-queue)# map queue 1 cos 1
switch(config-queue)# map queue 0 cos 0

3. Create a schedule profile that services queue 7 using strict priority (SP), and the remaining queues with
minimum bandwidth. This scenario defines queue 7 as strict and gives queues 0-6 an equal minimum
bandwidth.

switch(config)# qos schedule-profile voip
switch(config-schedule)# strict queue 7
switch(config-schedule)# min-bandwidth queue 6 percent 10
switch(config-schedule)# min-bandwidth queue 5 percent 10
switch(config-schedule)# min-bandwidth queue 4 percent 10
switch(config-schedule)# min-bandwidth queue 3 percent 10
switch(config-schedule)# min-bandwidth queue 2 percent 10
switch(config-schedule)# min-bandwidth queue 1 percent 10
switch(config-schedule)# min-bandwidth queue 0 percent 10

4. Apply the profiles to all interfaces.

switch(config)# apply qos queue-profile ef_priority schedule-profile voip

5. Configure DSCP trust mode on all ports

switch(config)# qos trust dscp

Configuring rate limiting
This scenario illustrates how to use rate limiting to manage the traffic from various devices connected to a
switch. The physical topology of the network looks like this:

Chapter 3 QoS configuration

15

A certain amount of broadcast traffic is necessary to maintain healthy network operation, particularly from
routers and across service boundaries. In this scenario, both the service cloud and the router connections
limit this traffic to 1 Gbps. The server has a smaller limit, as it does not require as much network protocol
traffic as the service cloud and router.

A multicast server needs to be able to stream multicast traffic to clients, so a multicast rate limit may not be
helpful. A computer, however, should not be generating large amounts of multicast traffic (it may be
receiving streams, but typically not sending them). In this example, the computer is configured with a
multicast rate limit to prevent malicious traffic from taking up network bandwidth.

Finally, while the service cloud and router may need to send traffic for unknown unicast addresses to resolve
address forwarding, the server and computer should send very little of this type of traffic. Rate limiting
unknown unicast traffic on those two devices enforces that.

Procedure

1. Configure broadcast and multicast rate limiting for the service cloud connection.

switch# config
switch(config)# interface 1/1/1
switch(config-if)# rate-limit broadcast 1000000 kbps
switch(config-if)# rate-limit multicast 2000000 kbps
switch(config-if)# exit

2. Configure broadcast rate limiting for the router connection.

switch(config-if)# interface 1/1/2
switch(config-if)# rate-limit broadcast 1000000 kbps
switch(config-if)# exit

3. Configure broadcast rate limiting for the server connection.

switch(config-if)# interface 1/1/5
switch(config-if)# rate-limit broadcast 200000 kbps
switch(config-if)# exit

4. Configure broadcast, and multicast rate limiting for the computer connection.

switch(config-if)# interface 1/1/10
switch(config-if)# rate-limit broadcast 1000 kbps
switch(config-if)# rate-limit multicast 500 kbps

16

AOS-CX 10.06 Quality of Service Guide

Configuring egress queue shaping
This example shows how to apply egress queue shaping to an interface. First, a schedule profile is created
that has per-queue bandwidth limits set on all queues with strict as the scheduling algorithm. Next, this
profile is applied to an interface or LAG.

The following example creates a schedule profile named EQSExample, which services all seven queues using
strict priority. This profile configures queues 1, 4, and 7 with a bandwidth limit of 10 Gbps, 20 Gbps, and
30 Gbps respectively. The profile is then applied to interface 1/1/1.

switch(config)# qos schedule-profile EQSExample
switch(config-schedule)# strict queue 0
switch(config-schedule)# strict queue 1 max-bandwidth 10000000
switch(config-schedule)# strict queue 2
switch(config-schedule)# strict queue 3
switch(config-schedule)# strict queue 4 max-bandwidth 20000000
switch(config-schedule)# strict queue 5
switch(config-schedule)# strict queue 6
switch(config-schedule)# strict queue 7 max-bandwidth 30000000
switch(config-schedule)# exit
switch(config)# interface 1/1/1
switch(config-if)# apply qos schedule-profile EQSExample

Supporting Ethernet 802.1D Class of Service
IEEE 802.1Q is the most current Ethernet standard for Class of Service (CoS). It superseded an earlier
standard, 802.1D, in 2005. IEEE 802.1Q slightly changed the ordering of the classes of service from its
predecessor IEEE 802.1D for CoS 2 and CoS 0:

CoS 802.1Q

7 Network Control

6 Internetwork Control

5 Voice (<10ms latency)

4 Video (<100ms latency)

3 Critical Applications

2 Excellent Effort

0 Best Effort

1 Background

CoS 802.1D

7 Network Control

6 Voice (<10ms latency)

5 Video (<100ms latency)

4 Controlled Load

3 Excellent Effort

0 Best Effort

2 Spare

1 Background

In 802.1D, both CoS 2 and CoS 1 are below CoS 0 (Best Effort).

When a switch is installed in a network of devices following 802.1D Class of Service, the QoS to queue
mapping must be reconfigured to follow the 802.1D standard by swapping the assignments of CoS 0 and 2:

1. Create a new queue profile with the desired queue to CoS mapping changes.

2. Apply the created queue profile, using the apply qos command.

switch# config
switch(config)# queue-profile newProfile
switch(config-queue)# map queue 0 cos 1
switch(config-queue)# map queue 2 cos 0
switch(config-queue)# map queue 1 cos 2

Chapter 3 QoS configuration

17

switch(config-queue)# map queue 3 cos 3
switch(config-queue)# map queue 4 cos 4
switch(config-queue)# map queue 5 cos 5
switch(config-queue)# map queue 6 cos 6
switch(config-queue)# map queue 7 cos 7

switch# show qos queue-profile newProfile
queue_num    cos      name
--------- ----------- ----
0         1
1         2
2         0
3         3
4         4
5         5
6         6
7         7

Monitoring queue operation
Use the show interface queues command to display the traffic transmitted per queue, and the number of
packets dropped due to the queue being full. (Tx Bytes is available on the 6100, 6200, and 6300 Switch
Series.) For example:

switch# show interface 1/1/1 queues
Interface 1/1/1 is  (Administratively down)
 Admin state is down
 State information: admin_down
         Tx Packets             Tx Bytes          Tx Drops
 Q0             100                 8000                 0
 Q1         1234567          12345678908                 5
 Q2              0                     0                 0
 Q3              0                     0                 0
 Q4              0                     0                 0
 Q5              0                     0                 0
 Q6              0                     0                 0
 Q7              0                     0                 0

• Tx Bytes: Total bytes transmitted (available on the 6100, 6200, and 6300 Switch Series). The byte count
may include packet headers and internal metadata that are removed before the packet is transmitted.
Packet headers added when the packet is transmitted may not be included.

• Tx Packets: Total packets transmitted.

• Tx Drops: The number of packets dropped by a queue before it was sent. When traffic cannot be

forwarded out an egress interface, it backs up at ingress. The more servicing assigned to a queue by a
schedule profile, the less likely traffic destined for that queue will back up and be dropped. Tx Drops
shows the sum of packets that were dropped across all line modules (due to insufficient capacity) by the
ingress Virtual Output Queues (VOQs) destined for the egress port. Applicable to the 6400 Switch Series:
Because the counts are read separately from each line module, the sum is not an instantaneous
snapshot.

18

AOS-CX 10.06 Quality of Service Guide

Chapter 4
QoS commands

apply qos

Syntax

apply qos [queue-profile <QUEUE-NAME>] schedule-profile <SCHEDULE-NAME>

no apply qos schedule-profile <SCHEDULE-NAME>

Description

Applies a queue profile and schedule profile globally to all Ethernet and LAG interfaces on the switch, or
applies a schedule profile to a specific interface. When applied globally, the specified schedule profile is
configured only on Ethernet interfaces and LAGs that do not already have their own schedule profile.

The same profile can be applied both globally and locally to an interface. This guarantees that an interface
always uses the specified profile, even if the global profile is changed.

The no form of this command removes the specified schedule profile from an interface and the interface
uses the global schedule profile. This is the only way to remove a schedule profile override from the
interface.

NOTE: Interfaces may shut down briefly during reconfiguration.

Command context

config

config-if

config-lag-if

Parameters
queue-profile <QUEUE-NAME>

Specifies the name of the queue profile to apply. Range: 1 to 64 alphanumeric characters, including
period (.), underscore (_), and hyphen (-). This parameter is not supported in the config-if context.

schedule-profile <SCHEDULE-NAME>

Specifies the name of the schedule profile to apply. Range: 1 to 64 alphanumeric characters, including
period (.), underscore (_), and hyphen (-).

Authority

Administrators or local user group members with execution rights for this command.

Chapter 4 QoS commands

19

Usage

•

For a schedule profile to be complete and ready to be applied, it must define all queues specified in the
queue profile. All queues must use the same algorithm, except for the highest numbered queue, which
can be strict.

• Both the queue profile and the schedule profile must specify the same number of queues.

• Schedule profiles can be modified while applied, but only in ways where a single command will not result
in the profile becoming invalid. For example, queue 7 can have the algorithm changed, and weighted
queues can have their weights changed.

• Queues must be consecutively defined starting at queue number zero. For example, a four-queue profile
with priority values defined for queues 0, 1, 2, 3 is valid, but a four-queue profile which defines priority
values for queues 1, 3, 5, and 7 is not.

Examples

The following commands illustrate a valid configuration where every CoS value is assigned to a queue and
all assigned queues are defined.

switch(config)# qos trust cos
switch(config)# qos queue-profile Q1
switch(config)# map queue 0 cos 0
switch(config)# map queue 1 cos 1
switch(config)# map queue 2 cos 2
switch(config)# map queue 3 cos 3
switch(config)# map queue 4 cos 4
switch(config)# map queue 5 cos 5
switch(config)# map queue 6 cos 6
switch(config)# map queue 7 cos 7

switch(config)# qos schedule-profile S1
switch(config)# min-bandwidth queue 0 percent 5
switch(config)# min-bandwidth queue 1 percent 5
switch(config)# min-bandwidth queue 2 percent 10
switch(config)# min-bandwidth queue 3 percent 10
switch(config)# min-bandwidth queue 4 percent 20
switch(config)# min-bandwidth queue 5 percent 20
switch(config)# min-bandwidth queue 6 percent 10
switch(config)# min-bandwidth queue 7 percent 20
switch(config)# apply qos queue-profile Q1 schedule-profile S1

The following commands illustrate an invalid configuration because CoS 2 is not assigned to a queue.

switch(config)# qos trust cos
switch(config)# qos queue-profile Q1
switch(config)# map queue 0 cos 0
switch(config)# map queue 1 cos 1
switch(config)# map queue 3 cos 3
switch(config)# map queue 4 cos 4
switch(config)# map queue 5 cos 5
switch(config)# map queue 6 cos 6
switch(config)# map queue 7 cos 7

switch(config)# qos schedule-profile S1
switch(config)# min-bandwidth queue 0 percent 5
switch(config)# min-bandwidth queue 1 percent 5
switch(config)# min-bandwidth queue 3 percent 10
switch(config)# min-bandwidth queue 4 percent 20
switch(config)# min-bandwidth queue 5 percent 20
switch(config)# min-bandwidth queue 6 percent 10

20

AOS-CX 10.06 Quality of Service Guide

switch(config)# min-bandwidth queue 7 percent 20
switch(config)# apply qos queue-profile Q1 schedule-profile S1

Applying the QoS profile myprofile and the schedule profile myschedule to all interfaces that do not have
an applied interface-specific schedule profile:

switch(config)# apply qos queue-profile myprofile schedule-profile myschedule

min-bandwidth

Syntax

min-bandwidth queue <QUEUE-NUMBER> percent <VALUE>

no min-bandwidth queue <QUEUE-NUMBER>

Description

Assigns the Guaranteed Minimum Bandwidth (GMB) algorithm and a percentage of bandwidth to a queue.
GMB allocates available bandwidth among all non-empty queues in relation to their configured minimum
bandwidth. Non-empty queues are serviced first in strict order up to their minimum bandwidth. If there is
any remaining bandwidth the scheduler will strictly service any remaining non-empty queues.

The no form of this command only clears the algorithm for a queue if GMB has been assigned.

Command context

config-schedule

Parameters
<QUEUE-NUMBER>

Specifies the queue number. Range: 0 to 7.

<VALUE>

Specifies bandwidth percentage used for GMB scheduling. Range: 0 to 100.

Authority

Administrators or local user group members with execution rights for this command.

Examples

Assigning queue 0 of schedule profile S1 the GMB scheduling algorithm with minimum bandwidth of 5
percent:

switch(config)# qos schedule-profile S1
switch(config-schedule)# min-bandwidth queue 0 percent 5

Removing GMB from queue 0:

switch(config)# qos schedule-profile s1
switch(config-schedule)# no min-bandwidth queue 0

Chapter 4 QoS commands

21

name queue

Syntax

name queue  <QUEUE-NUMBER> <DESCRIPTION>

no name queue  <QUEUE-NUMBER>

Description

Assigns a description to a queue in a queue profile. This is for identification purposes and has no effect on
configuration.

The no form of this command removes the description associated with a queue.

Command context

config-queue

Parameters
<QUEUE-NUMBER>

Specifies the queue number. Range: 0 to 7.

<DESCRIPTION>

Specifies a queue description for identification purposes. Range: 1 to 64 alphanumeric characters,
including period (.), underscore (_), and hyphen (-).

Authority

Administrators or local user group members with execution rights for this command.

Examples

Assigning the description priority-traffic to queue 7:

switch(config)# qos queue-profile myprofile
switch(config-queue)# name queue 7 priority-traffic

Removing the description from queue 7:

switch(config)# qos queue-profile myprofile
switch(config-queue)# no name queue 7

qos cos

Syntax

qos cos <CODE-POINT>

no qos cos

Description

Configures a CoS PCP remark for an Ethernet or LAG interface. Packets that ingress on the interface are
remarked at egress using the configured CoS PCP value.

The remark only occurs when QoS trust mode on the interface is set to none.

22

AOS-CX 10.06 Quality of Service Guide

If QoS trust mode is not set to none, then the remark is ignored, and the following commands will show the
CoS remark status as ignored (incompatible Port Access Trust configuration) or not
applied' (incompatible QoS global/port Trust configuration):

• show running-configuration

• show interface <PORT-NUM>

• show interface <PORT-NUM> qos

The no form of this command removes a CoS remark on an interface.

Command context

config-if

Parameters
<CODE-POINT>

Specifies an 802.1 VLAN priority CoS value. Range: 0 to 7.

Authority

Administrators or local user group members with execution rights for this command.

Examples

Configuring a CoS remark of 3 on interface 1/1/1:

switch(config)# interface 1/1/1
switch(config-if)# qos trust none
switch(config-if)# qos cos 3

Deleting a CoS remark of 3 on interface 1/1/1:

switch(config)# interface 1/1/1
switch(config-if)# no qos cos

qos dscp

Syntax

qos dscp <CODE-POINT>

no qos dscp

Description

Configures a differentiated services code point (DSCP) remark for an Ethernet or LAG interface. IPV4 and
IPV6 packets that ingress on the interface are remarked at egress using the configured DSCP value.

The remark only occurs when QoS trust mode on the interface is set to none. If a DSCP remark is configured
and then trust mode is subsequently set to cos or dscp, then the DSCP remark is ignored.

The following commands will show the remark status as ignored (incompatible Port Access Trust
configuration) or not applied' (incompatible QoS global/port Trust configuration):

Chapter 4 QoS commands

23

• show running-configuration

• show interface <PORT-NUM>

• show interface <PORT-NUM> qos

The no form of this command removes a CoS remark on an interface.

Command context

config-if

Parameters
<CODE-POINT>

Specifies an IP differentiated services code point value. Range: 0 to 63.

Authority

Administrators or local user group members with execution rights for this command.

Examples

Configuring a DSCP remark of 43 on interface 1/1/1:

switch(config)# interface 1/1/1
switch(config-if)# qos trust none
switch(config-if)# qos dscp 43

Deleting a DSCP remark of 43 on interface 1/1/1:

switch(config)# interface 1/1/1
switch(config-if)# no dscp 43

qos dscp-map

Syntax

qos dscp-map <CODE-POINT>   [cos COS-CODE-POINT] [name <DESCRIPTION>]

no qos dscp-map <CODE-POINT>

Description

Defines the CoS assigned to incoming packets for a specific IP differentiated services code point (DSCP)
value. The DSCP map values are used to prioritize incoming packets when QoS trust mode is set to dscp.

To see the default DSCP map settings, use the following command:

switch# show qos dscp-map default
DSCP     code_point cos  name
-------- ---------- --- -----
000000   0          0    CS0
000001   1          0
000010   2          0
000011   3          0
000100   4          0
000101   5          0
000110   6          0
000111   7          0

24

AOS-CX 10.06 Quality of Service Guide

001000   8          1    CS1
001001   9          1
001010   10         1    AF11
001011   11         1
001100   12         1    AF12
001101   13         1
001110   14         1    AF13
001111   15         1
010000   16         2    CS2
010001   17         2
010010   18         2    AF21
010011   19         2
010100   20         2    AF22
010101   21         2
010110   22         2    AF23
010111   23         2
011000   24         3    CS3
011001   25         3
011010   26         3    AF31
011011   27         3
011100   28         3    AF32
011101   29         3
011110   30         3    AF33
011111   31         3
100000   32         4    CS4
100001   33         4
100010   34         4    AF41
100011   35         4
100100   36         4    AF42
100101   37         4
100110   38         4    AF43
100111   39         4
101000   40         5    CS5
101001   41         5
101010   42         5
101011   43         5
101100   44         5
101101   45         5
101110   46         5    EF
101111   47         5
110000   48         6    CS6
110001   49         6
110010   50         6
110011   51         6
110100   52         6
110101   53         6
110110   54         6
110111   55         6
111000   56         7    CS7
111001   57         7
111010   58         7
111011   59         7
111100   60         7
111101   61         7
111110   62         7
111111   63         7

The no form of this command restores the assignments for a code point to the default setting.

Command context

config

Chapter 4 QoS commands

25

Parameters
<CODE-POINT>

Specifies an IP differentiated services code point. Range: 0 to 63. Default: 0.

cos <COS-CODE-POINT>

Specifies an 802.1 VLAN priority CoS remark value. Range: 0 to 7. Default 0

name <DESCRIPTION>

Specifies a description for the DSCP setting. The name is used for identification only, and has no effect
on queue configuration. Range: 1 to 64 alphanumeric characters, including period (.), underscore (_), and
hyphen (-).

Authority

Administrators or local user group members with execution rights for this command.

Examples

Setting code point 41 to a CoS of 6:

switch(config)# qos dscp-map 41 cos 6

Setting code point 41 to the default value:

switch(config)# no qos dscp-map 41

qos queue-profile

Syntax

qos queue-profile <NAME>

no qos queue-profile <NAME>

Description

Creates a new QoS queue profile and switches to the config-queue context for the profile. Or, if the
specified QoS queue profile exists, this command switches to the config-queue context for the profile.

A queue profile maps queues to local-priority values.

A queue profile named factory-default is defined by default and is automatically applied to all
interfaces. It cannot be edited or deleted. Use the command show qos queue-profile factory-
default to view this profile. Do not use show running-configuration, as it will only display changes
from the initial values.

The no form of this command removes the specified QoS queue profile. Only profiles that are not currently
applied can be removed.

Command context

config

Parameters
<NAME>

Specifies the name of the QoS queue profile to create or configure. Range: 1 to 64 alphanumeric
characters, including period (.), underscore (_), and hyphen (-).

26

AOS-CX 10.06 Quality of Service Guide

Authority

Administrators or local user group members with execution rights for this command.

Examples

Creating the profile myprofile:

switch(config)# qos queue-profile myprofile
switch(config-queue)#

Deleting the profile myprofile:

switch(config)# no qos queue-profile myprofile

qos schedule-profile

Syntax

qos schedule-profile <NAME>

no qos schedule-profile <NAME>

Description

Creates a QoS schedule profile and switches to the config-schedule context for the profile. If the
specified schedule profile exists, this command switches to the config-schedule context for the profile.
The schedule profile determines the order in which queues are selected to transmit a packet, and the
amount of service defined for each queue.

Queues in a schedule profile are numbered consecutively starting from zero. Queue zero is the lowest
priority queue. The larger the queue number, the higher priority the queue has in scheduling algorithms.

A profile named factory-default is defined by default and applied to all interfaces. It cannot be edited or
deleted. To see its settings, use the command:

switch# show qos schedule-profile factory-default
queue_num algorithm     percent max-bandwidth_kbps
--------- ------------- ------- ------------------
0         min-bandwidth 2
1         min-bandwidth 3
2         min-bandwidth 30
3         min-bandwidth 10
4         min-bandwidth 10
5         min-bandwidth 10
6         min-bandwidth 15
7         min-bandwidth 20

A profile named strict is predefined and cannot be edited or deleted. The strict profile services all queues
of the queue profile to which it is applied, using the strict priority algorithm.

A schedule profile must be defined on all interfaces at all times.

There are two permitted configurations for a schedule profile:

1. All queues use the same scheduling algorithm (for example, GMB).

2. The highest queue number uses strict priority, and all remaining (lower) queues use the same algorithm

(for example, GMB). This supports priority scheduling behavior necessary for the IEFT RFC 3246
Expedited Forwarding specification (https://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc3246).

Chapter 4 QoS commands

27

Only limited changes can be made to an applied schedule profile:

• The percentage of a GMB queue.

• The bandwidth of a strict queue.

• The algorithm of the highest numbered queue can be swapped between GMB and strict, and vice versa.

Applicable to REST: Any other changes will result in an unusable schedule profile, and the switch will revert
to the factory-default profile until the profile is corrected.

The no form of this command removes the specified QoS schedule profile when it is not applied. Only
profiles that are not currently applied to an interface can be removed.

Command context

config

Parameters
<NAME>

Specifies the name of the QoS schedule profile to create or configure. Range: 1 to 64 alphanumeric
characters, including period (.), underscore (_), and hyphen (-).

Authority

Administrators or local user group members with execution rights for this command.

Examples

Creating the schedule profile myschedule:

switch(config)# qos schedule-profile myschedule
switch(config-schedule)#

Deleting the schedule profile myschedule:

switch(config)# no qos schedule-profile myschedule

qos trust

Syntax

qos trust {none | cos | dscp}

no qos trust

Description

Configures one of three modes that are applied globally on all Ethernet interfaces and LAGs that have not
applied their own trust mode. The QoS mode determines how CoS values are assigned to packets.

In the config context:

• This command sets the trust mode that is globally applied to all interfaces that do not have a trust mode

configured.

• The no form of this command restores all interfaces that do not currently have a trust mode configured

to the default setting.

28

AOS-CX 10.06 Quality of Service Guide

In the config-if context:

• This command sets the trust mode override for a specific interface.

• The no form of this command clears a trust mode override. The interface then uses the global setting.

This is the only way to remove a trust mode override.

Command context

config

config-if

Parameters
none

Ignore all packet headers. Ingress packets are assigned the priority value configured for CoS map value
0.

cos

For 802.1 VLAN-tagged packets, use the priority code point field value from the outermost VLAN header
as the index into the CoS map. If the packet is untagged, use the priority configured for CoS map value 0.
Default.

dscp

For IP packets, use the DSCP value as the index into the DSCP map. For non-IP packets, use the priority
configured for CoS map value 0.

Authority

Administrators or local user group members with execution rights for this command.

Example

Setting the global trust mode to dscp, which is applied to all interfaces that do not already have an
individual trust mode configured. An override is then applied to interface 2/2/2, and LAG 100, setting trust
mode to cos:

switch(config)# qos trust dscp
switch(config)# interface 2/2/2
switch(config-if)# qos trust cos
switch(config-if)# interface lag 100
switch(config-if)# qos trust cos

rate-limit

Syntax

rate-limit {broadcast | multicast | unknown-unicast | icmp {ip-all | ipv4 | ipv6}} <RATE> kbps

no rate-limit {broadcast | multicast | unknown-unicast | icmp}

Description

Sets the amount of traffic of a specific type that can ingress on an Ethernet interface, or on each port of a
LAG interface. Rate limits are enforced separately on each individual member of a LAG, not on the LAG as a
whole.

The no form of this command removes the traffic limit for the specified traffic type.

Chapter 4 QoS commands

29

Command context

config-if

Parameters
{broadcast | multicast | unknown-unicast| icmp {ip-all | ipv4 |ipv6}}

Specifies the type of ingress traffic to which the rate limit applies: broadcast, multicast, unknown-unicast,
or ICMP.

The multicast rate limit affects multicast and broadcast traffic. The broadcast rate limit only affects
broadcast traffic. When both types are applied to the same interface, broadcast packets are limited to
the lower of the two rate values. Layer 2 BPDU packets, like spanning tree, are also included in the
multicast rate limit.

Unknown-unicast packets may be intended for devices whose addresses have temporarily aged out of
network forwarding caches. Configuring rate limits can help provide balance between necessary and
flooded traffic.

The ICMP rate limit can be configured to apply to IPv4, IPv6, or all IP traffic. Only one ICMP rate-limit can
be configured at a time. Applying a new ICMP rate-limit replaces any previous ICMP rate-limit.

<RATE>

Specifies the rate limit. Range: 64 to 100000000 kbps (in steps of 64 kbps). The actual rate limit varies
with steps approximately equal to the minimum value. Verify the actual rate limit using the command
show interface <INTERFACE-NAME>.

Authority

Administrators or local user group members with execution rights for this command.

Examples

Limiting broadcast traffic to 1024 kbps on interface 1/1/3:

switch(config)# interface 1/1/3
switch(config-if)# rate-limit broadcast 1024 kbps

Limiting all ICMP IPv4 traffic to 10000 kbps on interface 1/1/3:

switch(config)# interface 1/1/3
switch(config-if)# rate-limit icmp ipv4 1024 kbps

Viewing the results of the previous configuration settings.

switch# show interface 1/1/3 qos
Interface 1/1/3 is up
 Admin state is up
 qos trust cos (global)
 qos queue-profile factory-default (global)
 qos schedule-profile factory-default (global)
 rate-limit unknown-unicast 1024 kbps (1024 actual)
 rate-limit broadcast 1024 kbps (1100 actual)
 rate-limit multicast 1024 kbps (1100 actual)
 rate-limit icmp ip-all 1024 kbps (1024 actual)

switch# show interface 1/1/3

Interface 1/1/3 is up
 Admin state is up
 Link state: up for 3 minutes (since Thu Nov 26 17:56:14 UTC 2020)
 Link transitions: 1

30

AOS-CX 10.06 Quality of Service Guide

Description:
 Hardware: Ethernet, MAC Address: f8:60:f0:c9:21:bc
 MTU 1500
 Type 1GbT
 Full-duplex
 qos trust cos
 rate-limit unknown-unicast 1024 kbps (1024 actual)
 rate-limit broadcast 1024 kbps (1100 actual)
 rate-limit multicast 1024 kbps (1100 actual)
 rate-limit icmp ip-all 1024 kbps (1024 actual)
 Speed 1000 Mb/s
 Auto-negotiation is on
 Energy-Efficient Ethernet is disabled
 Flow-control: off
 Error-control: off
 MDI mode: MDIX
 VLAN Mode: access
 Access VLAN: 1
 Rx
            0 total packets                    0 total bytes
            0   unicast packets
            0   multicast packets
            0   broadcast packets
            0 errors                           0 dropped
            0 CRC/FCS                          0 pause
 Tx
      1057962 total packets            366066962 total bytes
            0   unicast packets
            0   multicast packets
      1058039   broadcast packets
            0 errors                           0 dropped
            0 collision                        0 pause

show interface queues

Syntax

show interface <INTERFACE-NAME> queues [vsx-peer]

Description

Shows the traffic transmitted per queue and the number of packets dropped due to the queue being full.

Command context

Operator (>) or Manager (#)

Parameters
<INTERFACE-NAME>

Specifies the name of an interface on the switch. Format: member/slot/port.

[vsx-peer]

Shows the output from the VSX peer switch. If the switches do not have the VSX configuration or the ISL
is down, the output from the VSX peer switch is not displayed. This parameter is available on switches
that support VSX.

Chapter 4 QoS commands

31

Authority

Operators or Administrators or local user group members with execution rights for this command.
Operators can execute this command from the operator context (>) only.

Usage

Statistics include:

• Tx Bytes: Total bytes transmitted (available on the 6200 and 6300 Switch Series). The byte count may

include packet headers and internal metadata that are removed before the packet is transmitted. Packet
headers added when the packet is transmitted may not be included.

• Tx Packets: Total packets transmitted.

• Tx Drops: The number of packets dropped by a queue before it was sent. When traffic cannot be

forwarded out an egress interface, it backs up at ingress. The more servicing assigned to a queue by a
schedule profile, the less likely traffic destined for that queue will back up and be dropped. Tx Drops
shows the sum of packets that were dropped across all line modules (due to insufficient capacity) by the
ingress Virtual Output Queues (VOQs) destined for the egress port.

Examples

Showing settings for interface 1/1/5:

switch# show interface 1/1/5
Interface 1/1/5 is down (Administratively down)
 Admin state is down
 State information: admin_down
 Hardware: Ethernet, MAC Address: aa:55:aa:55:00:29
 MTU 1500
 Full-duplex
 qos trust cos
 qos schedule-profile default
 qos shape 400000
 qos cos 4 (not applied)
 qos dscp 46 (not applied)
 rate-limit broadcast 500 kbps
 rate-limit multicast 4000 pps
 Speed 0 Mb/s
 Auto-Negotiation is turned on
 Flow-control: off

Showing queue statistics for interface 1/1/5:

(Tx Bytes is available on the 6100, 6200, and 6300 Switch Series.)

switch# show interface 1/1/5 queues
Interface 5 is down
 Admin state is up
                 Tx Bytes      Tx Packets        Tx Drops
 Q0                     0               0               3
 Q1                 15356              73               0
 Q2                     0               0               0
 Q3                     0               0               0
 Q4                     0               0               0
 Q5                     0               0               0
 Q6                     0               0               0
 Q7                     0               0               0

32

AOS-CX 10.06 Quality of Service Guide

show interface qos

Syntax

show interface <INTERFACE-NAME> qos

Description

Shows various QoS settings for a specific interface.

Command context

Operator (>) or Manager (#)

Parameters
<INTERFACE-NAME>

Specifies the name of an interface on the switch. Format: member/slot/port or lag number.

[vsx-peer]

Shows the output from the VSX peer switch. If the switches do not have the VSX configuration or the ISL
is down, the output from the VSX peer switch is not displayed. This parameter is available on switches
that support VSX.

Authority

Operators or Administrators or local user group members with execution rights for this command.
Operators can execute this command from the operator context (>) only.

Examples

Showing QoS settings for interface 1/1/5:

switch# show interface 1/1/5 qos
Interface 1/1/5 is up
Admin state is up
qos trust none (global)
qos queue-profile factory-default (global)
qos schedule-profile eqs (override)
qos cos 5
qos dscp 47
rate-limit broadcast 40000 kbps (40000 actual)
rate-limit icmp ip-all 10000 kbps (10000 actual)

         Max-Bandwidth Kbps
Q6              100000
Q7              150000

show qos dscp-map

Syntax

show qos dscp-map [default]

Description

Displays the current or default global QoS dscp-map.

Chapter 4 QoS commands

33

Command context

Operator (>) or Manager (#)

Parameters
default

Shows the factory default DSCP code point settings.

Authority

Operators or Administrators or local user group members with execution rights for this command.
Operators can execute this command from the operator context (>) only.

Examples

Showing the current DSCP map:

switch# show qos dscp-map
DSCP     code_point cos  name
-------- ---------- ---  ----
000000   0          0    CS0
000001   1          0
000010   2          0
000011   3          0
000100   4          0
000101   5          0
...
101101   45         5
101110   46         6    new
101111   47         5
110000   48         6    CS6
...
111101   61         7
111110   62         7
111111   63         7

Showing the default DSCP map:

switch# show qos dscp-map default
DSCP     code_point cos  name
-------- ---------- ---  ----
000000   0          0    CS0
000001   1          0
000010   2          0
000011   3          0
000100   4          0
000101   5          0
...
101101   45         5
101110   46         5
101111   47         5
110000   48         6    CS6
...
111100   60         7
111101   61         7
111110   62         7
111111   63         7

34

AOS-CX 10.06 Quality of Service Guide

show qos queue-profile

Syntax

show qos queue-profile [<NAME>]

Description

Shows the status of all queue profiles, or a specific queue profile.

Command context

Operator (>) or Manager (#)

Parameters
<NAME>

Specifies the name of a queue profile. Range 1 to 64 alphanumeric characters, including period (.),
underscore (_), and hyphen (-).

Authority

Operators or Administrators or local user group members with execution rights for this command.
Operators can execute this command from the operator context (>) only.

Example

Showing the status of the queue profile Test:

switch# show qos schedule-profile Test
queue_num algorithm     percent max-bandwidth_kbps
--------- ------------- ------- ------------------
0         min-bandwidth 10
1         min-bandwidth 10
2         min-bandwidth 30
3         min-bandwidth 10
4         min-bandwidth 10
5         min-bandwidth 10
6         min-bandwidth 10
7         min-bandwidth 10

Showing the status of the default queue profile factory-default:

switch# show qos schedule-profile default
queue_num algorithm     percent max-bandwidth_kbps
--------- ------------- ------- ------------------
0         min-bandwidth 2
1         min-bandwidth 3
2         min-bandwidth 30
3         min-bandwidth 10
4         min-bandwidth 10
5         min-bandwidth 10
6         min-bandwidth 15
7         min-bandwidth 20

show qos schedule-profile

Syntax

show qos schedule-profile [<NAME>]

Chapter 4 QoS commands

35

Description

Shows the status of all schedule profiles, or a specific schedule profile.

Command context

Operator (>) or Manager (#)

Parameters
<NAME>

Specifies the name of a queue or schedule profile. Range: 1 to 64 alphanumeric characters, including
period (.), underscore (_), and hyphen (-).

Authority

Operators or Administrators or local user group members with execution rights for this command.
Operators can execute this command from the operator context (>) only.

Example

Showing the status of schedule profile myschedule:

Showing the status of the default schedule profile:

Showing the status of schedule profile Test:

switch# show qos schedule-profile Test
queue_num algorithm     percent max-bandwidth_kbps
--------- ------------- ------- ------------------
0         min-bandwidth 10
1         min-bandwidth 10
2         min-bandwidth 30
3         min-bandwidth 10
4         min-bandwidth 10
5         min-bandwidth 10
6         min-bandwidth 10
7         min-bandwidth 10

Showing the status of the default schedule profile:

switch# show qos schedule-profile default
queue_num algorithm     percent max-bandwidth_kbps
--------- ------------- ------- ------------------
0         min-bandwidth 2
1         min-bandwidth 3
2         min-bandwidth 30
3         min-bandwidth 10
4         min-bandwidth 10
5         min-bandwidth 10
6         min-bandwidth 15
7         min-bandwidth 20

show qos trust

Syntax

show qos trust [default]

Description

Shows the global QoS trust settings, or the factory default settings.

36

AOS-CX 10.06 Quality of Service Guide

Command context

Operator (>) or Manager (#)

Parameters
default

Shows the factory default QoS trust settings.

Authority

Operators or Administrators or local user group members with execution rights for this command.
Operators can execute this command from the operator context (>) only.

Examples

Showing the current QoS trust settings:

Showing the default QoS trust settings:

switch# show qos trust default
qos trust cos

strict queue

Syntax

strict queue <QUEUE-NUMBER> [[max-bandwidth <BANDWIDTH>]]

no strict queue <QUEUE-NUMBER>

Description

Assigns the strict priority algorithm to a queue. Strict priority services all packets waiting in a queue, before
servicing the packets in lower priority queues.

The no form of this command removes the queue configuration from the schedule profile. To remove only
egress queue shaping, re-enter the strict queue command without the max-bandwidth parameter.

Command context

config-schedule

Parameters
<QUEUE-NUMBER>

Specifies the number of the queue. Range: 0 to 7.

max-bandwidth <BANDWIDTH>

Specifies the maximum bandwidth allowed on the queue in Kbps. Range: 49 to 100000000.

Authority

Administrators or local user group members with execution rights for this command.

Examples

Assigning strict priority to queue 7 in the schedule profile myschedule:

switch(config)# qos schedule-profile myschedule
switch(config-schedule)# strict queue 7

Chapter 4 QoS commands

37

Deleting strict priority from queue 7 in the schedule profile myschedule:

switch(config)# qos schedule-profile myschedule
switch(config-schedule)# no strict queue 7

Assigning strict priority to queue 7 in the schedule profile myschedule with a maximum bandwidth of
10000 Kbps:

switch(config)# qos schedule-profile myschedule
switch(config-schedule)# strict queue 7 max-bandwith 10000

38

AOS-CX 10.06 Quality of Service Guide

Chapter 5
Support and other resources

Accessing Aruba Support

Aruba Support Services

https://www.arubanetworks.com/support-services/

Aruba Support Portal

https://asp.arubanetworks.com/

North America telephone

1-800-943-4526 (US & Canada Toll-Free Number)

+1-408-754-1200 (Primary - Toll Number)

+1-650-385-6582 (Backup - Toll Number - Use only when all other
numbers are not working)

International telephone

https://www.arubanetworks.com/support-services/contact-
support/

Be sure to collect the following information before contacting Support:

• Technical support registration number (if applicable)

• Product name, model or version, and serial number

• Operating system name and version

•

Firmware version

• Error messages

• Product-specific reports and logs

• Add-on products or components

• Third-party products or components

Other useful sites

Other websites that can be used to find information:

Airheads social forums and
Knowledge Base

https://community.arubanetworks.com/

Software licensing

https://lms.arubanetworks.com/

End-of-Life information

https://www.arubanetworks.com/support-services/end-of-life/

Aruba software and
documentation

https://asp.arubanetworks.com/downloads

Accessing updates
To download product updates:

Chapter 5 Support and other resources

39

Aruba Support Portal

https://asp.arubanetworks.com/downloads

If you are unable to find your product in the Aruba Support Portal, you may need to search My Networking,
where older networking products can be found:

My Networking

https://www.hpe.com/networking/support

To view and update your entitlements, and to link your contracts and warranties with your profile, go to the
Hewlett Packard Enterprise Support Center More Information on Access to Support Materials page:

https://support.hpe.com/portal/site/hpsc/aae/home/

IMPORTANT: Access to some updates might require product entitlement when accessed
through the Hewlett Packard Enterprise Support Center. You must have an HP Passport set up
with relevant entitlements.

Some software products provide a mechanism for accessing software updates through the product
interface. Review your product documentation to identify the recommended software update method.

To subscribe to eNewsletters and alerts:

https://asp.arubanetworks.com/notifications/subscriptions (requires an active Aruba Support Portal
(ASP) account to manage subscriptions). Security notices are viewable without an ASP account.

Warranty information
To view warranty information for your product, go to https://www.arubanetworks.com/support-
services/product-warranties/.

Regulatory information
To view the regulatory information for your product, view the Safety and Compliance Information for Server,
Storage, Power, Networking, and Rack Products, available at https://www.hpe.com/support/Safety-
Compliance-EnterpriseProducts

Additional regulatory information

Aruba is committed to providing our customers with information about the chemical substances in our
products as needed to comply with legal requirements, environmental data (company programs, product
recycling, energy efficiency), and safety information and compliance data, (RoHS and WEEE). For more
information, see https://www.arubanetworks.com/company/about-us/environmental-citizenship/.

Documentation feedback
Aruba is committed to providing documentation that meets your needs. To help us improve the
documentation, send any errors, suggestions, or comments to Documentation Feedback (docsfeedback-
switching@hpe.com). When submitting your feedback, include the document title, part number, edition,
and publication date located on the front cover of the document. For online help content, include the
product name, product version, help edition, and publication date located on the legal notices page.

40

AOS-CX 10.06 Quality of Service Guide