| AOS-CX |         | 10.07 | Quality |        | of  |
| ------ | ------- | ----- | ------- | ------ | --- |
|        | Service |       | Guide   |        |     |
|        | 8320,   | 8325  | Switch  | Series |     |
PartNumber:5200-7880
Published:April2021
Edition:1

Copyright Information

© Copyright 2021 Hewlett Packard Enterprise Development LP.

Open Source Code

This product includes code licensed under the GNU General Public License, the GNU Lesser General Public
License, and/or certain other open source licenses. A complete machine-readable copy of the source code
corresponding to such code is available upon request. This offer is valid to anyone in receipt of this
information and shall expire three years following the date of the final distribution of this product version
by Hewlett Packard Enterprise Company. To obtain such source code, send a check or money order in the
amount of US $10.00 to:

Hewlett Packard Enterprise Company
6280 America Center Drive
San Jose, CA 95002
USA

Notices

The information contained herein is subject to change without notice. The only warranties for Hewlett
Packard Enterprise products and services are set forth in the express warranty statements accompanying
such products and services. Nothing herein should be construed as constituting an additional warranty.
Hewlett Packard Enterprise shall not be liable for technical or editorial errors or omissions contained herein.

Confidential computer software. Valid license from Hewlett Packard Enterprise required for possession, use,
or copying. Consistent with FAR 12.211 and 12.212, Commercial Computer Software, Computer Software
Documentation, and Technical Data for Commercial Items are licensed to the U.S. Government under
vendor's standard commercial license.

Links to third-party websites take you outside the Hewlett Packard Enterprise website. Hewlett Packard
Enterprise has no control over and is not responsible for information outside the Hewlett Packard
Enterprise website.

Acknowledgments

Intel®, Itanium®, Optane™, Pentium®, Xeon®, Intel Inside®, and the Intel Inside logo are trademarks of
Intel Corporation in the U.S. and other countries.

Microsoft® and Windows® are either registered trademarks or trademarks of Microsoft Corporation in the
United States and/or other countries.

Adobe® and Acrobat® are trademarks of Adobe Systems Incorporated.

Java® and Oracle® are registered trademarks of Oracle and/or its affiliates.

UNIX® is a registered trademark of The Open Group.

All third-party marks are property of their respective owners.

| 2

Contents
Contents
| Contents                                     |                                | 3   |
| -------------------------------------------- | ------------------------------ | --- |
| About this                                   | document                       | 5   |
| Applicableproducts                           |                                | 5   |
| Latestversionavailableonline                 |                                | 5   |
| Commandsyntaxnotationconventions             |                                | 5   |
| Abouttheexamples                             |                                | 6   |
| Identifyingswitchportsandinterfaces          |                                | 6   |
| QoS overview                                 |                                | 8   |
| End-to-endQoSbehavior                        |                                | 8   |
|                                              | Besteffortservice              | 8   |
|                                              | ClassofService                 | 8   |
|                                              | Differentiatedservices         | 9   |
| QoSontheswitch                               |                                | 10  |
|                                              | QoStrust                       | 11  |
|                                              | DynamicQoStrustmode            | 12  |
|                                              | Portratelimiting               | 12  |
|                                              | Queueprofiles                  | 13  |
|                                              | Scheduleprofiles               | 13  |
|                                              | Egressqueueshaping             | 14  |
|                                              | Egressportshaping              | 14  |
|                                              | ExplicitCongestionNotification | 14  |
|                                              | Thresholdprofiles              | 15  |
|                                              | Terms                          | 15  |
| QoS configuration                            |                                | 17  |
| ConfiguringQoS                               |                                | 17  |
| ConfiguringexpeditedforwardingforVoIPtraffic |                                | 19  |
| Configuringratelimiting                      |                                | 20  |
| Configuringegressqueueshaping                |                                | 21  |
| Configuringegressportshaping                 |                                | 21  |
| Monitoringqueueoperation                     |                                | 22  |
| QoS commands                                 |                                | 24  |
| applyqos                                     |                                | 24  |
| applyqosthreshold-profile                    |                                | 26  |
| dwrrqueue                                    |                                | 27  |
| mapqueue                                     |                                | 27  |
| namequeue                                    |                                | 29  |
| qoscos-map                                   |                                | 29  |
| qosdscp                                      |                                | 31  |
| qosdscp-map                                  |                                | 32  |
| qosqueue-profile                             |                                | 33  |
| qosschedule-profile                          |                                | 34  |
| qosshape                                     |                                | 35  |
| qosthreshold-profile                         |                                | 36  |
| qostrust                                     |                                | 37  |
| queueaction                                  |                                | 38  |
3
AOS-CX10.07QualityofServiceGuide| (8320,8325SwitchSeries)

| rate-limit               |                    |           | 39  |
| ------------------------ | ------------------ | --------- | --- |
| showinterfacequeues      |                    |           | 40  |
| showinterfaceqos         |                    |           | 42  |
| showqoscos-map           |                    |           | 42  |
| showqosdscp-map          |                    |           | 43  |
| showqosqueue-profile     |                    |           | 45  |
| showqosschedule-profile  |                    |           | 46  |
| showqosthreshold-profile |                    |           | 47  |
| showqostrust             |                    |           | 48  |
| strictqueue              |                    |           | 49  |
| Support                  | and Other          | Resources | 51  |
| AccessingArubaSupport    |                    |           | 51  |
| AccessingUpdates         |                    |           | 51  |
|                          | ArubaSupportPortal |           | 51  |
|                          | MyNetworking       |           | 52  |
| WarrantyInformation      |                    |           | 52  |
| RegulatoryInformation    |                    |           | 52  |
| DocumentationFeedback    |                    |           | 52  |
Contents|4

Chapter 1

About this document

About this document

This document describes features of the AOS-CX network operating system. It is intended for administrators
responsible for installing, configuring, and managing Aruba switches on a network.

Applicable products
This document applies to the following products:

n Aruba 8320 Switch Series (JL479A, JL579A, JL581A)

n Aruba 8325 Switch Series (JL624A, JL625A, JL626A, JL627A)

Latest version available online
Updates to this document can occur after initial publication. For the latest versions of product
documentation, see the links provided in Support and Other Resources.

Command syntax notation conventions

Convention

Usage

example-text

Identifies commands and their options and operands, code examples,
filenames, pathnames, and output displayed in a command window. Items that
appear like the example text in the previous column are to be entered exactly
as shown and are required unless enclosed in brackets ([ ]).

example-text

In code and screen examples, indicates text entered by a user.

Any of the following:
n <example-text>
n <example-text>
n example-text

n example-text

|

{ }

[ ]

Identifies a placeholder—such as a parameter or a variable—that you must
substitute with an actual value in a command or in code:

n For output formats where italic text cannot be displayed, variables are
enclosed in angle brackets (< >). Substitute the text—including the
enclosing angle brackets—with an actual value.

n For output formats where italic text can be displayed, variables might

or might not be enclosed in angle brackets. Substitute the text
including the enclosing angle brackets, if any, with an actual value.

Vertical bar. A logical OR that separates multiple items from which you can
choose only one.
Any spaces that are on either side of the vertical bar are included for
readability and are not a required part of the command syntax.

Braces. Indicates that at least one of the enclosed items is required.

Brackets. Indicates that the enclosed item or items are optional.

AOS-CX 10.07 Quality of Service Guide | (8320, 8325 Switch Series)

5

Convention

… or

...

Usage

Ellipsis:

n In code and screen examples, a vertical or horizontal ellipsis indicates an

omission of information.

n In syntax using brackets and braces, an ellipsis indicates items that can be

repeated. When an item followed by ellipses is enclosed in brackets, zero

or more items can be specified.

About the examples
Examples in this document are representative and might not match your particular switch or environment.

The slot and port numbers in this document are for illustration only and might be unavailable on your
switch.

Understanding the CLI prompts

When illustrating the prompts in the command line interface (CLI), this document uses the generic term
switch, instead of the host name of the switch. For example:
switch>

The CLI prompt indicates the current command context. For example:
switch>

Indicates the operator command context.

switch#

Indicates the manager command context.

switch(CONTEXT-NAME)#

Indicates the configuration context for a feature. For example:

switch(config-if)#

Identifies the interface context.

Variable information in CLI prompts

In certain configuration contexts, the prompt may include variable information. For example, when in the
VLAN configuration context, a VLAN number appears in the prompt:
switch(config-vlan-100)#

When referring to this context, this document uses the syntax:
switch(config-vlan-<VLAN-ID>)#

Where <VLAN-ID> is a variable representing the VLAN number.

Identifying switch ports and interfaces
Physical ports on the switch and their corresponding logical software interfaces are identified using the
format:
member/slot/port

On the 83xx Switch Series

n member: Always 1. VSF is not supported on this switch.

n slot: Always 1. This is not a modular switch, so there are no slots.

n port: Physical number of a port on the switch.

About this document | 6

For example, the logical interface 1/1/4 in software is associated with physical port 4 on the switch.

If using breakout cables, the port designation changes to x:y, where x is the physical port and y is the lane when

split to 4 x 10G or 4 x 25G. For example, the logical interface 1/1/4:2 in software is associated with lane 2 on

physical port 4 in slot 1 on member 1.

AOS-CX 10.07 Quality of Service Guide | (8320, 8325 Switch Series)

7

Chapter 2
QoS overview
QoS overview
QualityofService(QoS)enablesnetworkadministratorstocustomizehowdifferenttypesoftrafficare
servicedonanetwork,takingintoaccounttheuniquecharacteristicsofeachtraffictypeanditsimportance
withinanorganization'sinfrastructure.QoSensuresuniformandefficienttraffichandling,keepingthemost
importanttrafficmovingatanacceptablespeed,regardlessofcurrentbandwidthusage.Italsoprovides
methodsforadministratorstocontroltheprioritysettingsofinboundtrafficarrivingateachnetwork
device.
| End-to-end | QoS behavior |     |
| ---------- | ------------ | --- |
TheQoSsettingsoneachnetworkdevicemustbealignedtoachievethedesiredend-to-endQoSbehavior
foranetwork.Threeservicetypescanbeusedtocategorizeandprioritizenetworktraffic:
n BestEffortService
n EthernetClassofService(CoS)
InternetDifferentiatedServices(DiffServ)
n
Foranetworkasawhole,itisbesttoselectoneservicetypetouseastheprimaryend-to-endbehavior,and
thenusetheothertwoservicetypesasneeded.
| Best effort | service |     |
| ----------- | ------- | --- |
Thisisthesimplestservicetype.Alltrafficistreatedequallyinafirst-come,first-servedmanner.Ifthetraffic
loadislowinrelationtothecapacityofthenetworklinks,thenthereisnoneedfortheadministrative
complexityandcostsofmaintainingamorecomplexend-to-endpolicy.Thisissometimescalledover-
provisioning,asalllinkspeedsaremuchhigherthanpeakloadsonthenetwork.
| Class of | Service |     |
| -------- | ------- | --- |
ClassofService(CoS)isamethodforclassifyingnetworktrafficatlayer2bymarking802.1QVLANEthernet
frameswithoneofeightserviceclasses.
| CoS | Traffic type         | Example protocols |
| --- | -------------------- | ----------------- |
| 7   | NetworkControl       | STP,PVST          |
| 6   | InternetworkControl  | BGP,OSPF,PIM      |
| 5   | Voice(<10mslatency)  | VoIP(UDP)         |
| 4   | Video(<100mslatency) | RTP               |
| 3   | CriticalApplications | SQLRPC,SNMP       |
| 2   | ExcellentEffort      | NFS,SMB           |
8
AOS-CX10.07QualityofServiceGuide| (8320,8325SwitchSeries)

| CoS | Traffic type |     |     |     | Example protocols |     |
| --- | ------------ | --- | --- | --- | ----------------- | --- |
| 0   | BestEffort   |     |     |     | HTTP,TELNET       |     |
| 1   | Background   |     |     |     | SMTP,IMAP         |     |
CoS1isdeliberatelysetasthelowestCoS.Thisenablesatrafficservicelevelbelowthedefault(besteffort)
trafficleveltobespecified.
The3-bitPriorityCodePoint(PCP)fieldwithinthe16-bitEthernetVLANtagisusedtomarktheCoS.
+--------+--------+--------+----------+-----------+--------
| | mac-da | | mac-sa | | 0x8100 | VLAN | tag | | ethertype | | data... |     |
| -------- | -------- | --------------- | ----- | --------- | --------- | --- |
+--------+--------+--------+----------+-----------+--------
|     |     | /   | \   |     |     |     |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
|     |     | /   |     | \   |     |     |
|     |     | /   |     | \   |     |     |
+-----+-----+---------+
|     |     | | pcp | dei | | vlan_id | |   |     |     |
| --- | --- | ----------- | --------- | --- | --- | --- |
+-----+-----+---------+
| Differentiated | services |     |     |     |     |     |
| -------------- | -------- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
Differentiatedservices(DiffServ)isamethodforclassifyingnetworktrafficatlayer3bymarkingpackets
withoneof64differentserviceclasses.ServicesclassesareidentifiedbytheDifferentiatedservicesCode
Point(DSCP)value.SomecommonDSCPvaluesare:
| DSCP     | Name           |     | Service                | class |     | RFC  |
| -------- | -------------- | --- | ---------------------- | ----- | --- | ---- |
| 56       | CS6            |     | NetworkControl         |       |     | 2474 |
| 46       | EF             |     | Telephony              |       |     | 3246 |
| 40       | CS5            |     | Signaling              |       |     | 2474 |
| 34,36,38 | AF41,AF42,AF43 |     | MultimediaConferencing |       |     | 2597 |
| 32       | CS4            |     | Real-TimeInteractive   |       |     | 2474 |
| 26,28,30 | AF31,AF32,AF33 |     | MultimediaStreaming    |       |     | 2597 |
| 24       | CS3            |     | BroadcastVideo         |       |     | 2474 |
| 18,20,22 | AF21,AF22,AF23 |     | Low-LatencyData        |       |     | 2597 |
| 16       | CS2            |     | OAM                    |       |     | 2474 |
| 00       | CS0,BE,DF      |     | BestEffort             |       |     | 2474 |
| 10,12,14 | AF11,AF12,AF13 |     | BulkData               |       |     | 2597 |
| 08       | CS1            |     | Low-PriorityData       |       |     | 3662 |
DSCPCS1(08)CoS1isdeliberatelysetasthelowestpriority.Thisenablesatrafficservicelevelbelowthe
standard(besteffortordefaultforwarding)leveltobespecified.
QoSoverview |9

The DSCP value is carried within the IPv4 DSCP field or the upper 6-bits of the 8-bit IPv6 Traffic Class (TC)
field.

IPv4
+----+-----+----+----+---+-------+----+------+-------+------+------+-------
|ver |dscp |ecn |len |id |offset |ttl |proto |chksum |ip-sa |ip-da | data..
+----+-----+----+----+---+-------+----+------+-------+------+------+-------

+------+-----+
| dscp | ecn |
+------+-----+

\

\

/

/

/

IPv6 \
+-----+-----+-----+-------+-------------+-----------+-------+-------+--------
| ver | tc | len | label | next_header | hop_limit | ip-sa | ip-da | data...
+-----+-----+-----+-------+-------------+-----------+-------+-------+--------

QoS on the switch
There are five key stages a packet passes through when traversing a switch: ingress, prioritization,
destination determination, egress queuing, and transmission. The following table provides an overview of
each stage, and lists the commands that can be used to configure QoS settings.

Switches with at least 52 ports will experience negative performance if a flood occurs where at least 42 ports are

members of the same VLAN and all 52 ports have QoS rules applied to them.

AOS-CX 10.07 Quality of Service Guide | (8320, 8325 Switch Series)

10

The following diagram shows how different packets might traverse a switch. It also shows how QoS
configuration settings apply at each stage.

QoS trust

Traffic priorities for networks can be carried in VLAN tags, using the CoS Priority Code Point (PCP), or in IP
packet headers, using the Differentiated Services Code Point (DSCP). Whether these priorities affect how
traffic is serviced, depends on how QoS trust mode is configured on the switch. QoS trust mode specifies
how the switch assigns local priority values to ingress packets. Trust mode can be set globally for all

QoS overview | 11

interfaces, or individually for each interface. By default, trust mode is set to none, meaning that any QoS
information in the packet (CoS or DSCP) is ignored, and local priority values are assigned from the CoS map
value for code point 0. An exception to this can be configured, allowing a QoS remark to be applied to DSCP
values when trust mode is none.

When trust mode is set to CoS or DSCP, the switch translates the QoS settings in VLAN tags (for CoS), or the
DS field in an IP header (for DSCP), to local priority values on the switch. Translation is controlled by the CoS
map or DSCP map tables.

For example:

Dynamic QoS trust mode

The device profile feature can dynamically set the QoS trust mode on an interface based on the LLDP
information exchanged with a link partner. The device profile's trust mode temporarily overrides the static
trust mode configured for an interface. The override remains in place as long as that link partner is
connected and its link state is up. Use command show interface IFNAME qos to view the current QoS trust
mode for an interface.

Port rate limiting

Port rate limiting helps control undesirable traffic. Its purpose is to allow enough broadcast, multicast, and
ICMP rate-limit traffic for the network to function properly, while preventing flooding and traffic storms.

A certain amount of each type of traffic is required for normal network operation. Broadcast packets may
include ARP and DHCP traffic, for instance. Video streams, and certain types of network protocol packets,
are multicasts. Unknown-unicast packets may be intended for devices whose addresses have temporarily
aged out of network-forwarding caches. Configuring rate limits can help provide the balance between
necessary and flooded traffic.

AOS-CX 10.07 Quality of Service Guide | (8320, 8325 Switch Series)

12

Queue profiles
Aqueueprofiledefinesthequeuesthatareassociatedwithaninterfacetocontrolthetransmissionof
packets.Eachprofilesupportsuptoeightqueues,numbered0to7.Thelargerthequeuenumber,the
higheritspriorityduringtransmissionscheduling.Packetsareassignedtoaqueuebasedontheirlocal
priorityvalue(0to7).Aqueueprofilemustmapalleightlocalpriorityvaluestowhateverqueuesarebeing
usedontheswitch,andascheduleprofilemustspecifytheconfigurationforthosesamequeues.Aqueue
withoutalocalpriorityvalueassignedtoitisnotusedtostorepackets.
Theswitchisautomaticallyprovisionedwithaninitialqueueprofilenamedfactory-defaultwhichassigns
eachlocalprioritytothequeueofthesamenumber.Toseethedefaultqueueprofile,usethecommand
show qos queue-profile factory-default:
| switch#   | show qos queue-profile | factory-default           |
| --------- | ---------------------- | ------------------------- |
| queue_num | local_priorities       | name                      |
| --------- | ----------------       | ----                      |
| 0         | 0                      | Scavenger_and_backup_data |
| 1         | 1                      |                           |
| 2         | 2                      |                           |
| 3         | 3                      |                           |
| 4         | 4                      |                           |
| 5         | 5                      |                           |
| 6         | 6                      |                           |
| 7         | 7                      |                           |
Morethanonelocalpriorityvaluecanbeassignedtothesamequeue.Forexample,
Local
Queue
Priority
| 0   | 0   |     |
| --- | --- | --- |
| 1   | 1   |     |
| 2   | 2   |     |
| 3   | 3   |     |
| 4   | 4   |     |
| 5   | 5   |     |
| 6   | 5   |     |
| 7   | 5   |     |
CommonlyusedcommandsforworkingwithQoSqueuesareasfollows:
queue-profile:Createsanemptyqueue-profileandenterstheprofileconfigurationcontext.
n qos
n name queue:Assignsadescriptivenametoaqueue.
n map queue:Assignsalocal-prioritytoaqueue.
n apply qos queue-profile:Appliesaqueue-profilegloballytoallinterfaces.
| Schedule | profiles |     |
| -------- | -------- | --- |
QoSoverview |13

Ascheduleprofiledeterminestheorderinwhichqueuesareselectedfortransmission,andtheamountof
serviceavailableforeachqueue.Ascheduleprofilemustbeconfiguredoneveryinterfaceatalltimes.A
scheduleprofilecanbeappliedgloballytoallinterfaces,oronlytospecificinterfaces.
Threeoptionsareavailable:
n Allqueuesusedeficitweightedroundrobinqueuing(DWRR)
Allqueuesusestrictpriority
n
Thehighestpriorityqueueusesstrictpriority,andallotherqueuesuseDWRR
n
Aweightedscheduleprofileassignsrelativeservicingforeachqueue.Theamountofserviceperweightis
relativetotheunderlyinghardwareimplementation,andtotheweightsassignedtotheothernon-empty
queues.Strictschedulingcanbeusedtoservicequeuespurelyonthebasisofhighestpriorityfirst(atthe
riskofstarvinglower-priorityqueuesduringhighstressperiods).Acombinationofstrictandweighted
schedulingoffersmoreservicetothehighestpriorityqueuewhenneeded,whilepreservingscheduling
betweentheremainingqueues,thusdecreasingtheriskofstarvation.
Theswitchisautomaticallyprovisionedwithascheduleprofilenamedfactory-default,whichassigns
DWRRtoallqueueswithaweightof1.Usethecommandshow schedule-profile factory-defaultto
viewthedefaultscheduleprofile.(Donotuseshow running-configuration,asitonlydisplayschanges
fromtheinitialsettings.)
| switch#   | show qos      | schedule-profile | default |
| --------- | ------------- | ---------------- | ------- |
| queue_num | algorithm     | weight           |         |
| --------- | ---------     | ------           |         |
| 0         | dwrr          | 1                |         |
| 1         | dwrr          | 1                |         |
| 2         | dwrr          | 1                |         |
| 3         | dwrr          | 1                |         |
| 4         | dwrr          | 1                |         |
| 5         | dwrr          | 1                |         |
| 6         | dwrr          | 1                |         |
| 7         | dwrr          | 1                |         |
| Egress    | queue shaping |                  |         |
Egressqueueshapinglimitstheamountoftraffictransmittedperstrictoutputqueue.Thebufferassociated
witheachegressqueuestoresexcesstraffictoabsorbburstsandsmoothstheoutputrate.Forexample,an
administratormightlimitstrict-priorityqueuetraffictopreventlow-priorityqueuestarvationintheevent
thatadeviceinappropriatelysendstoomanyhigher-prioritypackets.
EgressqueueshapingcanbeconfiguredonanEthernetportoronalinkaggregationgroup(LAG).To
configureegressqueueshaping,defineascheduleprofilewiththestrictpriorityalgorithmassignedtoeach
queue.
| Egress | port shaping |     |     |
| ------ | ------------ | --- | --- |
Egressportshapinglimitstheamountofaggregatetraffictransmittedthroughaport.
Tobeeffective,theegressport-shapingratemustbelessthantheport'slinerate.Bydefault,theegress
port-shapingrateisthesameastheline-rateoftheport.Buffersassociatedwitheachportstoreexcess
traffic.
Whenbothegressport-shapingandegressqueue-shapingareconfiguredonthesameinterface,theswitch
respectstheminimumofbothconfigurations.
| Explicit | Congestion | Notification |     |
| -------- | ---------- | ------------ | --- |
AOS-CX10.07QualityofServiceGuide|(8320,8325SwitchSeries) 14

Explicit Congestion Notification (ECN) provides a mechanism for two end-points to exchange end-to-end
notification of network congestion. ECN uses a 2-bit field in the IP header to indicate that the traffic load on
network equipment in the path between an ECN-capable sender and receiver is causing packets to be
buffered, as defined by IETF RFC 3168 (https://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc3168).

Threshold profiles

Threshold profiles configure individual queue utilization thresholds as triggers for taking action (i.e., ECN
marking) on a packet. A threshold profile is applied per-port and defines the threshold and action for each
queue. Omitting configuration for a queue in a threshold profile means that queue will not be configured
with a threshold value or action.

In an environment where responsive transport protocols are in use and congestion management features
are required to reduce latency, ECN can be configured on queues carrying delay-sensitive traffic. The result
is that queue utilization is actively managed, resulting in ECT packets being CE marked when queue
utilization reaches or exceeds a configured threshold.

Terms

Class

For networking, a set of packets sharing a common characteristic. For example, all IPv4 packets.

Code point

The name of a packet header field, or the value carried within a packet header field:

n Example 1: Priority code point (PCP) is the name of a field in the IEEE 802.1Q VLAN tag.

n Example 2: Differentiated services code point (DSCP) is the name of a field carried within the DS field

of an IP packet header.

Color

A metadata label associated with each packet within the switch. It has three values: green (0), yellow (1), or
red (2). When packets encounter congestion for a resource (queue), the switch uses packet color to
distinguish which packets must be dropped, and is mostly used for packets marked with Assured
Forwarding (AF) DSCP values.

Not supported in this release.

Class of service (CoS)

A 3-bit value used to mark packets with one of eight classes (levels of priority). It is carried within the
priority code point (PCP) field of the IEEE 802.1Q VLAN tag.

Differentiated services code point (DSCP)

A 6-bit value used to mark packets for different per-hop behavior as originally defined by IETF RFC 2474.
It is carried within the differentiated services (DS) field of the IPv4 or IPv6 header.

Local priority

A meta-data label associated with a packet within the switch which is used to classify packets for
different treatment (such as queue assignment). Eight local priorities are defined on the switch,
numbered from 0 to 7. A queue profile must map all eight local priorities to whatever queues are in use
on the switch, and a schedule profile must specify the configuration for these same queues.

Metadata

Information labels associated with each packet in the switch, separate from the packet headers and data.
These labels are used by the switch in its handling of the packet. For example: arrival port, egress port,
VLAN membership, and local priority.

Priority code point (PCP)

QoS overview | 15

The name of a 3-bit field in the IEEE 802.1Q VLAN tag. It carries the CoS value to mark a packet with one
of eight classes (priority levels).

Quality of service (QoS)

General term used when describing or measuring performance. For networking, it means how different
classes of packets are treated when traversing a network or device.

Traffic class (TC)

General term for a set of packets sharing a common characteristic. It used to be the name of an 8-bit
field in the IPv6 header originally defined by IETF RFC 2460. This field name was changed to
differentiated services by IETF RFC 2474.

Type of service (ToS)

General term when there are different levels of treatment (fare class). It used to be the name of an 8-bit
field in the IPv4 header originally defined by IETF RFC 791. This field name was changed to differentiated
services by IETF RFC 2474.

AOS-CX 10.07 Quality of Service Guide | (8320, 8325 Switch Series)

16

Chapter 3

QoS configuration

QoS configuration

Configuring QoS

Procedure

1. Configure how local priority values are assigned to ingress packets with the commands qos dscp-map,

and qos trust.

2. Optionally, add a rate limit for ingress traffic on one or more interfaces with the command rate-

limit.

3.

If you do not want to use the default QoS queue profile to map local priority to queue, create one or
more custom queue profiles with the command qos queue-profile. For each queue in a custom
queue profile:
a. Assign a local priority value with the command map queue.
b. Optionally, define a descriptive name with the command name queue. All local priorities (0 to 7)
must be mapped to a queue, and the queues selected for use must be in contiguous order
starting at 0.

4.

If you do not want to use the default QoS schedule profile to determine the order in which queues are
selected to transmit a packet, create one or more custom schedule profiles with the command qos
schedule-profile. For each queue in a custom schedule queue profile, define scheduling priority
with the commands strict queue and dwrr queue.

5. Optionally for strict queues, configure egress queue shaping to limit egress bandwidth on an interface

to a value that is less than its line rate. Use the max-bandwidth parameter of the strict queue
command.

6. Activate QoS settings with the command apply qos. This command lets you apply a queue profile
and schedule profile globally to all interfaces, or a schedule profile override to individual interfaces.

When applying QoS settings to a port configured to support priority-based flow control, specific
configuration settings must be respected when defining a CoS map and queue profile. See the
command flow-control in the Command-Line Interface Guide for details.

7. View QoS configuration settings with the provided show commands.

Examples

This example creates the following configuration:
This example creates the following configuration:

n Configures CoS to be used to assign local priority to ingress packets.

n Modifies the default CoS map to assign CoS 1 to local priority 1.

n Creates a queue profile named Q1 and assigns local priorities as follows:

AOS-CX 10.07 Quality of Service Guide | (8320, 8325 Switch Series)

17

Queue LocalPriority
0 0
1 1
1 2
2 3
3 4
4 5
5 6
5 7
n CreatesascheduleprofilenamedS1andassignsDWRRtoallqueuesinthescheduleprofilewiththe
followingweights:
| Queue Weight |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |
| ------------ | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| 0 5          |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |
| 1 10         |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |
| 2 15         |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |
| 3 20         |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |
| 4 25         |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |
| 5 50         |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |
AppliesQ1andS1toallinterfacesthatdonothaveaQoSoverrideapplied.
n
| switch(config)#          | qos   | trust         | cos              |                  |        |                  |     |
| ------------------------ | ----- | ------------- | ---------------- | ---------------- | ------ | ---------------- | --- |
| switch(config)#          | qos   | cos-map       | 1 local-priority |                  |        | 1                |     |
| switch(config)#          | qos   | queue-profile |                  | Q1               |        |                  |     |
| switch(config-queue)#    |       | map           | queue            | 0 local-priority |        | 0                |     |
| switch(config-queue)#    |       | map           | queue            | 1 local-priority |        | 1                |     |
| switch(config-queue)#    |       | map           | queue            | 1 local-priority |        | 2                |     |
| switch(config-queue)#    |       | map           | queue            | 2 local-priority |        | 3                |     |
| switch(config-queue)#    |       | map           | queue            | 3 local-priority |        | 4                |     |
| switch(config-queue)#    |       | map           | queue            | 4 local-priority |        | 5                |     |
| switch(config-queue)#    |       | map           | queue            | 5 local-priority |        | 6                |     |
| switch(config-queue)#    |       | map           | queue            | 5 local-priority |        | 7                |     |
| switch(config-queue)#    |       | qos           | schedule-profile |                  |        | S1               |     |
| switch(config-schedule)# |       |               | dwrr queue       | 0                | weight | 5                |     |
| switch(config-schedule)# |       |               | dwrr queue       | 1                | weight | 10               |     |
| switch(config-schedule)# |       |               | dwrr queue       | 2                | weight | 15               |     |
| switch(config-schedule)# |       |               | dwrr queue       | 3                | weight | 20               |     |
| switch(config-schedule)# |       |               | dwrr queue       | 4                | weight | 25               |     |
| switch(config-schedule)# |       |               | dwrr queue       | 5                | weight | 50               |     |
| switch(config)#          | apply | qos           | queue-profile    |                  | Q1     | schedule-profile | S1  |
QoSconfiguration |18

| Configuring |     | expedited |     | forwarding |     | for VoIP | traffic |
| ----------- | --- | --------- | --- | ---------- | --- | -------- | ------- |
VoiceoverIP(VoIP)trafficisdelayandjittersensitive.ForoptimumtransmissionofVoIPtraffic,dwelltime
innetworkdevicesmustbekepttoaminimumandallnetworkdevicesinthedatapathmusthaveidentical
per-hopbehaviors.ToconfigureadedicatedqueueontheswitchtohandleVoIPtrafficwithpriorityservice
beforeallotherqueues,followthesesteps.
Prerequisites
ThisscenarioassumesthatVoIPpacketsareuniquelyidentifiedusingDiffServcodepoint46,Expedited
Forwarding(EF).
Procedure
1. MapDSCPEFpacketsexclusivelytolocalpriority5.ThedefaultDSCPmaphaseightcodepoints(40
through47),thataremappedtolocalpriority5.Toreserve localpriority5forVoIPtraffic,theother
codepointsmustbereassigned.Inthisscenario,localpriority6isusedforallreassignments,
includingforcodepoint40,CallSignalingprotocol(CS5).
|     | switch(config)# |     | qos dscp-map |     | 40 local-priority | 6 name | CS5 |
| --- | --------------- | --- | ------------ | --- | ----------------- | ------ | --- |
|     | switch(config)# |     | qos dscp-map |     | 41 local-priority | 6      |     |
switch(config)#
|     |                 |     | qos dscp-map |     | 42 local-priority | 6   |     |
| --- | --------------- | --- | ------------ | --- | ----------------- | --- | --- |
|     | switch(config)# |     | qos dscp-map |     | 43 local-priority | 6   |     |
|     | switch(config)# |     | qos dscp-map |     | 44 local-priority | 6   |     |
|     | switch(config)# |     | qos dscp-map |     | 45 local-priority | 6   |     |
|     | switch(config)# |     | qos dscp-map |     | 47 local-priority | 6   |     |
2. Queue7isthehighestpriorityqueue,soforbestthroughput,createaqueueprofilethatmapslocal
prioritytoqueue7.
switch(config)#
|     |                       |     | qos queue-profile |            | ef_priority            |     |     |
| --- | --------------------- | --- | ----------------- | ---------- | ---------------------- | --- | --- |
|     | switch(config-queue)# |     |                   | name queue | 7 Voice_Priority_Queue |     |     |
|     | switch(config-queue)# |     |                   | map queue  | 7 local-priority       | 5   |     |
|     | switch(config-queue)# |     |                   | map queue  | 6 local-priority       | 7   |     |
|     | switch(config-queue)# |     |                   | map queue  | 5 local-priority       | 6   |     |
|     | switch(config-queue)# |     |                   | map queue  | 4 local-priority       | 4   |     |
|     | switch(config-queue)# |     |                   | map queue  | 3 local-priority       | 3   |     |
|     | switch(config-queue)# |     |                   | map queue  | 2 local-priority       | 2   |     |
|     | switch(config-queue)# |     |                   | map queue  | 1 local-priority       | 1   |     |
|     | switch(config-queue)# |     |                   | map queue  | 0 local-priority       | 0   |     |
3. Createascheduleprofilethatservicesqueue7usingstrictpriority(SP),andtheremainingqueues
withDWRR.ThisscenariogivesallDWRRqueuesequalweight.
|     | switch(config)#          |     | qos schedule-profile |        | voip           |     |     |
| --- | ------------------------ | --- | -------------------- | ------ | -------------- | --- | --- |
|     | switch(config-schedule)# |     |                      | strict | queue 7        |     |     |
|     | switch(config-schedule)# |     |                      | dwrr   | queue 6 weight | 1   |     |
|     | switch(config-schedule)# |     |                      | dwrr   | queue 5 weight | 1   |     |
|     | switch(config-schedule)# |     |                      | dwrr   | queue 4 weight | 1   |     |
switch(config-schedule)#
|     |                          |     |     | dwrr | queue 3 weight | 1   |     |
| --- | ------------------------ | --- | --- | ---- | -------------- | --- | --- |
|     | switch(config-schedule)# |     |     | dwrr | queue 2 weight | 1   |     |
|     | switch(config-schedule)# |     |     | dwrr | queue 1 weight | 1   |     |
|     | switch(config-schedule)# |     |     | dwrr | queue 0 weight | 1   |     |
|     | switch(config-schedule)# |     |     | exit |                |     |     |
switch(config)#
AOS-CX10.07QualityofServiceGuide|(8320,8325SwitchSeries) 19

4. Apply the profiles to all interfaces.

switch(config)# apply qos queue-profile ef_priority schedule-profile voip

5. Configure DSCP trust mode on all ports

switch(config)# qos trust dscp

Configuring rate limiting
This scenario illustrates how to use rate limiting to manage the traffic from various devices connected to a
switch. The physical topology of the network looks like this:

A certain amount of broadcast traffic is necessary to maintain healthy network operation, particularly from
routers and across service boundaries. In this scenario, both the service cloud and the router connections
limit this traffic to 1 Gbps. The server has a smaller limit, as it does not require as much network protocol
traffic as the service cloud and router.

A multicast server needs to be able to stream multicast traffic to clients, so a multicast rate limit may not be
helpful. A computer, however, should not be generating large amounts of multicast traffic (it may be
receiving streams, but typically not sending them). In this example, the computer is configured with a
multicast rate limit to prevent malicious traffic from taking up network bandwidth.

Finally, while the service cloud and router may need to send traffic for unknown unicast addresses to
resolve address forwarding, the server and computer should send very little of this type of traffic. Rate
limiting unknown unicast traffic on those two devices enforces that.

Procedure

1. Configure broadcast and multicast rate limiting for the service cloud connection.

switch# config
switch(config)# interface 1/1/1
switch(config-if)# rate-limit broadcast 500 pps
switch(config-if)# rate-limit multicast 500 pps
switch(config-if)# exit

QoS configuration | 20

2. Configurebroadcastratelimitingfortherouterconnection.
|     | switch(config-if)# |     | interface  | 1/1/2     |         |     |     |
| --- | ------------------ | --- | ---------- | --------- | ------- | --- | --- |
|     | switch(config-if)# |     | rate-limit | broadcast | 500 pps |     |     |
|     | switch(config-if)# |     | exit       |           |         |     |     |
3. Configurebroadcastratelimitingfortheserverconnection.
|     | switch(config-if)# |     | interface  | 1/1/5     |         |     |     |
| --- | ------------------ | --- | ---------- | --------- | ------- | --- | --- |
|     | switch(config-if)# |     | rate-limit | broadcast | 100 pps |     |     |
switch(config-if)#
exit
4. Configurebroadcast,andmulticastratelimitingforthecomputerconnection.
|     | switch(config-if)# |     | interface | 1/1/10 |     |     |     |
| --- | ------------------ | --- | --------- | ------ | --- | --- | --- |
switch(config-if)#
|             |                    |        | rate-limit | broadcast | 50 pps |     |     |
| ----------- | ------------------ | ------ | ---------- | --------- | ------ | --- | --- |
|             | switch(config-if)# |        | rate-limit | multicast | 50 pps |     |     |
| Configuring |                    | egress | queue      | shaping   |        |     |     |
Thisexampleshowshowtoapplyegressqueueshapingtoaninterface.First,ascheduleprofileiscreated
thathasper-queuebandwidthlimitssetonallqueueswithstrictastheschedulingalgorithm.Next,this
profileisappliedtoaninterfaceorLAG.
ThefollowingexamplecreatesascheduleprofilenamedEQSExample,whichservicesalleightqueuesusing
strictpriority.Thisprofileconfiguresqueues1,4,and7withabandwidthlimitof10Gbps,20Gbps,and
30Gbpsrespectively.Also,queues1and7areconfiguredwithaburstof120KB(burstconfigurationis
onlysupportedonthe8320and8325).Theprofileisthenappliedtointerface1/1/1.(Theactualburstand
bandwidthconfiguredontheinterfacecanbefoundbyusingtheshow interface <IF-NAME> qos
command.)
| switch(config)#          |     | qos schedule-profile |        | EQSExample |     |     |     |
| ------------------------ | --- | -------------------- | ------ | ---------- | --- | --- | --- |
| switch(config-schedule)# |     |                      | strict | queue 0    |     |     |     |
switch(config-schedule)#
|                          |     |     | strict | queue 1 max-bandwidth |     | 10000000 burst | 120 |
| ------------------------ | --- | --- | ------ | --------------------- | --- | -------------- | --- |
| switch(config-schedule)# |     |     | strict | queue 2               |     |                |     |
| switch(config-schedule)# |     |     | strict | queue 3               |     |                |     |
| switch(config-schedule)# |     |     | strict | queue 4 max-bandwidth |     | 20000000       |     |
| switch(config-schedule)# |     |     | strict | queue 5               |     |                |     |
| switch(config-schedule)# |     |     | strict | queue 6               |     |                |     |
switch(config-schedule)# strict queue 7 max-bandwidth 30000000 burst 120
| switch(config-schedule)# |     |           | exit                 |         |            |     |     |
| ------------------------ | --- | --------- | -------------------- | ------- | ---------- | --- | --- |
| switch(config)#          |     | interface | 1/1/1                |         |            |     |     |
| switch(config-if)#       |     | apply     | qos schedule-profile |         | EQSExample |     |     |
| Configuring              |     | egress    | port                 | shaping |            |     |     |
Thisexampleshowshowtoapplyegressportshapingtoaninterfacetolimittherateofegresstraffic.
Egressportshapingisconfiguredbyspecifyingthedesiredbandwidthrateinkilobitspersecond(kbps).To
beeffective,theegressratemustbelessthanthelinerateoftheegressinterface.Iftheconfiguredegress
rateexceedstheinterface'slinerate,thenegressshapinghasnoeffect.
AOS-CX10.07QualityofServiceGuide|(8320,8325SwitchSeries) 21

Theconfiguredegressrateonaspecificinterfacecanbefoundbyusingtheshow interfaceandshow
| interface | qoscommands. |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |
| --------- | ------------ | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
Thefollowingexampleconfiguresanegressrateof100Mbps.
| switch(config)# |     | interface          |     | 1/1/1 |     |           |        |     |     |
| --------------- | --- | ------------------ | --- | ----- | --- | --------- | ------ | --- | --- |
|                 |     | switch(config-if)# |     |       |     | qos shape | 100000 |     |     |
Inthenextexample,bothegressportshapingandegressqueueshapingareconfiguredonthesame
interface.
TheexamplecreatesascheduleprofilenamedEQSExamplewithstrictpriorityforallsevenqueues.Queue7
isconfiguredwithabandwidthlimitof300Mbps.Theprofileisthenappliedtointerface1/1/1withegress
portshapingof400Mbps.Asegressqueueshapingandegressportshapingarebothconfiguredonport
1/1/1,egressqueueshapingissubjecttothelowerportorqueueshaperate.Theeffectivebandwidthfor
thetrafficegressingonqueue7willbe300Mbps.
| switch(config)#          |     | qos | schedule-profile |        |       | EQSExample |     |     |     |
| ------------------------ | --- | --- | ---------------- | ------ | ----- | ---------- | --- | --- | --- |
| switch(config-schedule)# |     |     |                  | strict | queue | 0          |     |     |     |
| switch(config-schedule)# |     |     |                  | strict | queue | 1          |     |     |     |
| switch(config-schedule)# |     |     |                  | strict | queue | 2          |     |     |     |
switch(config-schedule)#
|                          |     |           |       | strict    | queue            | 3               |            |     |        |
| ------------------------ | --- | --------- | ----- | --------- | ---------------- | --------------- | ---------- | --- | ------ |
| switch(config-schedule)# |     |           |       | strict    | queue            | 4               |            |     |        |
| switch(config-schedule)# |     |           |       | strict    | queue            | 5               |            |     |        |
| switch(config-schedule)# |     |           |       | strict    | queue            | 6               |            |     |        |
| switch(config-schedule)# |     |           |       | strict    | queue            | 7 max-bandwidth |            |     | 300000 |
| switch(config-schedule)# |     |           |       | exit      |                  |                 |            |     |        |
| switch(config)#          |     | interface |       | 1/1/1     |                  |                 |            |     |        |
| switch(config-if)#       |     |           | apply | qos       | schedule-profile |                 | EQSExample |     |        |
| switch(config-if)#       |     |           | qos   | shape     | 400000           |                 |            |     |        |
| Monitoring               |     | queue     |       | operation |                  |                 |            |     |        |
Usetheshowinterfacequeuescommandtodisplaythetraffictransmittedperqueue,andthenumberof
packetsdroppedduetothequeuebeingfull.Forexample:
| switch#   | show         | interface |                   | 1/1/1 | queues      |       |     |          |     |
| --------- | ------------ | --------- | ----------------- | ----- | ----------- | ----- | --- | -------- | --- |
| Interface | 1/1/1        | is        | (Administratively |       |             | down) |     |          |     |
| Admin     | state        | is down   |                   |       |             |       |     |          |     |
| State     | information: |           | admin_down        |       |             |       |     |          |     |
|           | Tx           | Packets   |                   |       | Tx          | Bytes |     | Tx Drops |     |
| Q0        |              | 100       |                   |       |             | 8000  |     |          | 0   |
| Q1        |              | 1234567   |                   |       | 12345678908 |       |     |          | 5   |
| Q2        |              |           | 0                 |       |             | 0     |     |          | 0   |
| Q3        |              |           | 0                 |       |             | 0     |     |          | 0   |
| Q4        |              |           | 0                 |       |             | 0     |     |          | 0   |
| Q5        |              |           | 0                 |       |             | 0     |     |          | 0   |
| Q6        |              |           | 0                 |       |             | 0     |     |          | 0   |
| Q7        |              |           | 0                 |       |             | 0     |     |          | 0   |
n Tx Bytes:Totalbytestransmitted.Thebytecountmayincludepacketheadersandinternalmetadata
thatareremovedbeforethepacketistransmitted.Packetheadersaddedwhenthepacketistransmitted
maynotbeincluded.
n Tx Packets:Totalpacketstransmitted.
QoSconfiguration |22

n Tx Drops: The number of packets dropped by a queue before it was sent. When traffic cannot be

transmitted out of an egress interface, it may be buffered in memory if space is available. The more
servicing assigned to a queue by a schedule profile, the less likely traffic destined for that queue will back
up and potentially dropped.

AOS-CX 10.07 Quality of Service Guide | (8320, 8325 Switch Series)

23

Chapter 4

QoS commands

QoS commands

apply qos

Syntax

apply qos [queue-profile <QUEUE-NAME>] schedule-profile <SCHEDULE-NAME>
no apply qos schedule-profile <SCHEDULE-NAME>

Description

Applies a queue profile and schedule profile globally to all Ethernet and LAG interfaces on the switch, or
applies a schedule profile to a specific interface. When applied globally, the specified schedule profile is
configured only on Ethernet interfaces and LAGs that do not already have their own schedule profile.

The same profile can be applied both globally and locally to an interface. This guarantees that an interface
always uses the specified profile, even if the global profile is changed.

The no form of this command removes the specified schedule profile from an interface and the interface
uses the global schedule profile. This is the only way to remove a schedule profile override from the
interface.

When applying QoS settings to a port configured to support priority-based flow control, specific configuration
settings must be respected when defining a CoS map and queue profile. See the command flow-control in the
ArubaOS-CX Command-Line Interface Guide for details.

Interfaces may shut down briefly during reconfiguration.

Command context

config
config-if
config-lag-if

Parameters

queue-profile <QUEUE-NAME>

Specifies the name of the queue profile to apply. Range: 1 to 64 alphanumeric characters, including period
(.), underscore (_), and hyphen (-). This parameter is not supported in the config-if context.
schedule-profile <SCHEDULE-NAME>

Specifies the name of the schedule profile to apply. Range: 1 to 64 alphanumeric characters, including period
(.), underscore (_), and hyphen (-).

Authority

Administrators or local user group members with execution rights for this command.

Usage

AOS-CX 10.07 Quality of Service Guide | (8320, 8325 Switch Series)

24

Theswitchmustalwayshaveaglobally-appliedqueueandscheduleprofile.Tostopusingagivenprofile,
n
applyadifferentprofile.
n Foraqueueprofiletobecompleteandreadytobeapplied,alleightlocalprioritiesmustbemappedtoa
queue.
n Forascheduleprofiletobecompleteandreadytobeapplied,itmustdefineallqueuesspecifiedinthe
queueprofile.Allqueuesmustusethesamealgorithm,exceptforthehighestnumberedqueue,which
canbestrict.
Boththequeueprofileandthescheduleprofilemustspecifythesamenumberofqueues.
n
n Scheduleprofilescanbemodifiedwhileapplied,butonlyinwayswhereasinglecommandwillnotresult
intheprofilebecominginvalid.Forexample,queue7canhavethealgorithmchanged,andweighted
queuescanhavetheirweightschanged.
Ifthereareinterfacesrunningwithpriority-basedflowcontrol(PFC)andanewqueueprofiletobeapplied
mapsalocal-priorityusedbythePFCtraffictoanotherqueue,thefollowingstepsarerequired:
1. Shutdownallinterfaces
2. Applythenewqueueprofile
3. Savetheconfigurationtostartup
4. Reboottheswitch
IfthenewqueueprofilewasappliedbeforeshuttingdownthePFCinterfacesthenPFCtrafficwillstilluse
thesamequeuefromthepreviousprofileuntiltheswitchisrebooted.
Ifthenumberofqueueswaschangedfromthepreviousqueueprofiletothenewone,anyEthernetorLAG
interfaceswithlocallyappliedscheduleprofileswillprogramthenewlyappliedglobalschedule-profile.The
showrunning-configinterfacecommandwilllisttheexistingapplyqosschedule-profilecommandwitha
commentdescribingtheactualprofileapplied:
| apply qos | schedule-profile | Old_Schedule |     |
| --------- | ---------------- | ------------ | --- |
!actualschedule-profileNew_Schedule
Examples
Thefollowingcommandsillustrateavalidconfigurationwhereeverylocalpriorityvalueisassignedtoa
queueandallassignedqueuesaredefined.
switch(config)
|                | qos cos-map       | 1 local-priority | 1   |
| -------------- | ----------------- | ---------------- | --- |
| switch(config) | qos queue-profile | Q1               |     |
| switch(config) | map queue         | 0 local-priority | 0   |
| switch(config) | map queue         | 1 local-priority | 1   |
| switch(config) | map queue         | 2 local-priority | 2   |
| switch(config) | map queue         | 3 local-priority | 3   |
| switch(config) | map queue         | 4 local-priority | 4   |
| switch(config) | map queue         | 5 local-priority | 5   |
| switch(config) | map queue         | 6 local-priority | 6   |
| switch(config) | map queue         | 7 local-priority | 7   |
switch(config)
|                | qos schedule-profile | S1          |     |
| -------------- | -------------------- | ----------- | --- |
| switch(config) | dwrr queue           | 0 weight 5  |     |
| switch(config) | dwrr queue           | 1 weight 10 |     |
| switch(config) | dwrr queue           | 2 weight 15 |     |
| switch(config) | dwrr queue           | 3 weight 20 |     |
| switch(config) | dwrr queue           | 4 weight 25 |     |
| switch(config) | dwrr queue           | 5 weight 50 |     |
QoScommands |25

Thefollowingcommandsillustrateaninvalidconfigurationbecauselocalpriority2isnotassignedtoa
queue.
| switch(config) | qos cos-map       | 1 local-priority | 1   |
| -------------- | ----------------- | ---------------- | --- |
| switch(config) | qos queue-profile | Q1               |     |
| switch(config) | map queue         | 0 local-priority | 0   |
| switch(config) | map queue         | 1 local-priority | 1   |
| switch(config) | map queue         | 3 local-priority | 3   |
| switch(config) | map queue         | 4 local-priority | 4   |
| switch(config) | map queue         | 5 local-priority | 5   |
| switch(config) | map queue         | 5 local-priority | 6   |
| switch(config) | map queue         | 5 local-priority | 7   |
switch(config)
|                | qos schedule-profile | S1          |     |
| -------------- | -------------------- | ----------- | --- |
| switch(config) | dwrr queue           | 0 weight 5  |     |
| switch(config) | dwrr queue           | 1 weight 10 |     |
| switch(config) | dwrr queue           | 3 weight 15 |     |
| switch(config) | dwrr queue           | 4 weight 25 |     |
| switch(config) | dwrr queue           | 5 weight 50 |     |
ApplyingtheQoSprofilemyprofileandthescheduleprofilemyscheduletoallinterfacesthatdonothave
anappliedinterface-specificscheduleprofile:
switch(config)# apply qos queue-profile myprofile schedule-profile myschedule
| apply qos | threshold-profile |     |     |
| --------- | ----------------- | --- | --- |
OnlysupportedontheAruba8325SwitchSeries.
Syntax
apply qos <THRESHOLD-NAME>
| no apply qos threshold-profile |     |     |     |
| ------------------------------ | --- | --- | --- |
Description
AppliesathresholdprofilegloballytoallEthernetandLAGinterfacesontheswitch,ortoaspecificinterface.
Whenappliedglobally,thespecifiedthresholdprofileisconfiguredonlyonEthernetinterfacesandLAGs
thatdonotalreadyhavetheirownscheduleprofile.
Thesameprofilecanbeappliedbothgloballyandlocallytoaninterface.Thisguaranteesthataninterface
alwaysusesthespecifiedthresholdprofile,eveniftheglobalprofileischanged.
Thenoformofthiscommandremovesthespecifiedthresholdprofilefromaninterface,andcausesittouse
theglobalthresholdprofile.Thisistheonlywaytoremoveathresholdprofileoverridefromaninterface.A
profilecanonlybedeletedonceitisnolongerappliedtoanyinterface.
Commandcontext
config
config-if
config-lag-if
Parameters
<THRESHOLD-NAME>
Specifiesthenameofthethresholdprofiletoapply.Range:1to64alphanumericcharacters,including
period(.),underscore(_),andhyphen(-).
AOS-CX10.07QualityofServiceGuide|(8320,8325SwitchSeries) 26

Authority
Administratorsorlocalusergroupmemberswithexecutionrightsforthiscommand.
Example
Applyingthethresholdprofilemythresholdtoallinterfacesthatdonothaveanappliedprofile:
| switch(config)# |       | apply | qos threshold-profile |     | mythreshold |
| --------------- | ----- | ----- | --------------------- | --- | ----------- |
| dwrr            | queue |       |                       |     |             |
Syntax
| dwrr queue | <QUEUE-NUMBER>       |     | weight <WEIGHT> |     |     |
| ---------- | -------------------- | --- | --------------- | --- | --- |
| no dwrr    | queue <QUEUE-NUMBER> |     |                 |     |     |
Description
Assignsthedeficitweightedroundrobin(DWRR)algorithmanditsweighttoaqueueinascheduleprofile.
DWRRallocatesavailablebandwidthamongallnon-emptyqueuesinrelationtothequeueweights.
ThenoformofthiscommandremovestheDWRRalgorithmfromaqueueinascheduleprofile.
Commandcontext
config-schedule
Parameters
<QUEUE-NUMBER>
Specifiesthequeuenumber.Range:0to7.
weight <WEIGHT>
Specifiestheschedulingweight.Range:1to253.
Authority
Administratorsorlocalusergroupmemberswithexecutionrightsforthiscommand.
Examples
AssigningDWRRwithaweightof17toqueue2inthescheduleprofilemyschedule:
| switch(config)#          |     | qos schedule-profile |            | myschedule |     |
| ------------------------ | --- | -------------------- | ---------- | ---------- | --- |
| switch(config-schedule)# |     |                      | dwrr queue | 2 weight   | 17  |
DeletingDWRRforqueue2fromthescheduleprofilemyschedule:
| switch(config)#          |       | qos schedule-profile |         | myschedule |     |
| ------------------------ | ----- | -------------------- | ------- | ---------- | --- |
| switch(config-schedule)# |       |                      | no dwrr | queue 2    |     |
| map                      | queue |                      |         |            |     |
Syntax
QoScommands |27

| map queue | <QUEUE-NUMBER>       | local-priority  | <PRIORITY-NUMBER>  |
| --------- | -------------------- | --------------- | ------------------ |
| no map    | queue <QUEUE-NUMBER> | [local-priority | <PRIORITY-NUMBER>] |
Description
Assignsalocalprioritytoaqueueinaqueueprofile.Bydefault,thelargerthequeuenumberthehigherits
priority.
Aqueuewithoutalocalpriorityvalueassignedtoitisnotusedtostorepackets.Thesamequeuecanbe
assignedmultiplelocalpriorities.
Thenoformofthiscommandremovesthespecifiedlocalpriorityfromaspecificqueue.Ifnolocalpriority
numberisspecified,thenalllocalprioritiesareremovedfromthequeue.
Commandcontext
config-queue
Parameters
<QUEUE-NUMBER>
Specifiesthequeuenumber.Range:0to7.
<PRIORITY-NUMBER>
Specifiesthelocalpriority.Range:0to7,where0isthelowestpriorityand7isthehighest.
Authority
Administratorsorlocalusergroupmemberswithexecutionrightsforthiscommand.
Usage
Anylocalpriorityusedbyinterfacepriority-basedflowcontrolmustbetheonlylocalprioritymappedtoits
queue.InorderforPFCpausingtoworkasintended,nootherlocalprioritiesshouldbemappedtothat
samequeue.Queuemappingconfigurationshouldbelimitedtoinitialswitchprovisioningandonlychanged
duringmaintenanceperiodswhereallportsaredisabled.
Thefollowingcommandsillustrateavalidconfiguration,whereeverylocalpriorityisassignedtoaqueue.
| map | queue 0 local-priority | 0   |     |
| --- | ---------------------- | --- | --- |
| map | queue 1 local-priority | 1   |     |
| map | queue 1 local-priority | 2   |     |
| map | queue 3 local-priority | 3   |     |
| map | queue 4 local-priority | 4   |     |
| map | queue 5 local-priority | 5   |     |
| map | queue 5 local-priority | 6   |     |
| map | queue 5 local-priority | 7   |     |
Thefollowingcommandsillustrateaninvalidconfiguration,becauselocalpriority2isnotassignedtoa
queue.
| map | queue 0 local-priority | 0   |     |
| --- | ---------------------- | --- | --- |
| map | queue 1 local-priority | 1   |     |
| map | queue 2 local-priority | 3   |     |
| map | queue 3 local-priority | 4   |     |
| map | queue 4 local-priority | 5   |     |
| map | queue 5 local-priority | 6   |     |
| map | queue 5 local-priority | 7   |     |
Examples
Assigningpriority7toqueue7inprofilemyprofile:
AOS-CX10.07QualityofServiceGuide|(8320,8325SwitchSeries) 28

| switch(config)# | qos | queue-profile | myprofile |     |
| --------------- | --- | ------------- | --------- | --- |
switch(config-queue)#
|     |     | map queue | 7 local-priority | 7   |
| --- | --- | --------- | ---------------- | --- |
Removingpriority7fromqueue7inprofilemyprofile:
| switch(config)#       | qos   | queue-profile | myprofile              |     |
| --------------------- | ----- | ------------- | ---------------------- | --- |
| switch(config-queue)# |       | no map        | queue 7 local-priority | 7   |
| name                  | queue |               |                        |     |
Syntax
| name queue    | <QUEUE-NUMBER> | <DESCRIPTION> |     |     |
| ------------- | -------------- | ------------- | --- | --- |
| no name queue | <QUEUE-NUMBER> |               |     |     |
Description
Assignsadescriptiontoaqueueinaqueueprofile.Thisisforidentificationpurposesandhasnoeffecton
configuration.
Thenoformofthiscommandremovesthedescriptionassociatedwithaqueue.
Commandcontext
config-queue
Parameters
<QUEUE-NUMBER>
Specifiesthequeuenumber.Range:0to7.
<DESCRIPTION>
Specifiesaqueuedescriptionforidentificationpurposes.Range:1to64alphanumericcharacters,
includingperiod(.),underscore(_),andhyphen(-).
Authority
Administratorsorlocalusergroupmemberswithexecutionrightsforthiscommand.
Examples
Assigningthedescriptionpriority-traffictoqueue7:
| switch(config)#       | qos | queue-profile | myprofile          |     |
| --------------------- | --- | ------------- | ------------------ | --- |
| switch(config-queue)# |     | name queue    | 7 priority-traffic |     |
Removingthedescriptionfromqueue7:
| switch(config)#       | qos | queue-profile | myprofile |     |
| --------------------- | --- | ------------- | --------- | --- |
| switch(config-queue)# |     | no name       | queue 7   |     |
qos cos-map
Syntax
QoScommands |29

qos cos-map <CODE-POINT> local-priority <PRIORITY-NUMBER> [color <COLOR>] [name
<DESCRIPTION>]
| no qos cos-map | <CODE-POINT> |     |     |
| -------------- | ------------ | --- | --- |
Description
Definesthelocalpriorityandcolorsettingsassignedtoincomingpacketsforaspecific802.1VLANpriority
codepoint(CoS)value.TheCoSmapvaluesareusedtomarkincomingpacketswhenQoStrustmodeisset
tocos.Intrust nonemode,CoSmapentry0isusedtosettheportdefaultlocalpriorityandcolor.
ToseethedefaultCoSmapsettings,usethefollowingcommand:
| switch#    | show qos cos-map | default                     |     |
| ---------- | ---------------- | --------------------------- | --- |
| code_point | local_priority   | color name                  |     |
| ---------- | --------------   | ------- ----                |     |
| 0          | 1                | green Best_Effort           |     |
| 1          | 0                | green Background            |     |
| 2          | 2                | green Excellent_Effort      |     |
| 3          | 3                | green Critical_Applications |     |
| 4          | 4                | green Video                 |     |
| 5          | 5                | green Voice                 |     |
| 6          | 6                | green Internetwork_Control  |     |
| 7          | 7                | green Network_Control       |     |
ThenoformofthiscommandrestorestheassignmentsforaCoSmapvaluetothedefaultsetting.
Commandcontext
config
Parameters
<CODE-POINT>
Specifiesan802.1VLANpriorityCoSvalue.Range:0to7.Default0.
| local-priority | <PRIORITY-NUMBER> |     |     |
| -------------- | ----------------- | --- | --- |
SpecifiesalocalpriorityvaluetoassociatewiththeCODE-POINTvalue.Range:0to7.Default:0.
color <COLOR>
Reservedforfutureuse.
name <DESCRIPTION>
SpecifiesadescriptionfortheCoSsetting.Thenameisforidentificationonly,andhasnoeffectonqueue
configuration.Range:1to64alphanumericcharacters,includingperiod(.),underscore(_),andhyphen
(-).
Authority
Administratorsorlocalusergroupmemberswithexecutionrightsforthiscommand.
Usage
Anycodepointconfiguredforusebyinterfacepriority-basedflowcontrolmustbeassignedauniquelocal
priorityintheCoSmap.Noothercodepointcanbeassignedthesamelocalpriority.Thisshouldbelimited
toinitialswitchprovisioningandonlychangedduringmaintenanceperiodswhereallportsaredisabled.
Examples
MappingCoSvalue1toalocalpriorityof2:
| switch(config)# | qos cos-map | 1 local-priority | 2   |
| --------------- | ----------- | ---------------- | --- |
AOS-CX10.07QualityofServiceGuide|(8320,8325SwitchSeries) 30

Mapping CoS value 1 to the default local priority value:

switch(config)# no qos cos-map 1

qos dscp

Syntax

qos dscp <CODE-POINT>
no qos dscp

Description

Configures a differentiated services code point (DSCP) remark for an Ethernet or LAG interface. IPV4 and
IPV6 packets that ingress on the interface are remarked at egress using the configured DSCP value.

The remark only occurs when QoS trust mode on the interface is set to none. If a DSCP remark is configured
and then trust mode is subsequently set to cos or dscp, then the DSCP remark is ignored.

The following commands will show the remark status as not applied (incompatible QoS global or port trust
configuration):

n show running-configuration

n show interface <INTERFACE-NAME>

n show interface <INTERFACE-NAME> qos

The no form of this command removes a CoS remark on an interface.

Command context

config-if
config-lag-if

Parameters

<CODE-POINT>

Specifies an IP differentiated services code point value. Range: 0 to 63.

Authority

Administrators or local user group members with execution rights for this command.

Usage

Order of operation for arriving IPv4 or IPv6 packets:

1. Trust none is applied with initial local-priority and color metadata assigned from the CoS Map entry

index 0.

2. The local-priority value and the queue profile are then used to determine the queue for the packet.

3. The remark of the packet's DSCP metadata field is performed. When the packet is transmitted, its

IPv4 or IPv6 DS header is remarked with the DSCP metadata.

For arriving non-IP packets:

Trust none is applied with initial local-priority and color metadata assigned from the CoS Map entry index 0.
This selects the queue for packet scheduling. The PCP of any tagged non-IP packets is unchanged.

Examples

QoS commands | 31

ConfiguringaDSCPremarkof43oninterface1/1/1:
| switch(config)#    |     | interface | 1/1/1 |     |
| ------------------ | --- | --------- | ----- | --- |
| switch(config-if)# |     | qos trust | none  |     |
| switch(config-if)# |     | qos dscp  | 43    |     |
DeletingaDSCPremarkof43oninterface1/1/1:
| switch(config)# |     | interface | 1/1/1 |     |
| --------------- | --- | --------- | ----- | --- |
switch(config-if)#
|     |     | no dscp | 43  |     |
| --- | --- | ------- | --- | --- |
qos dscp-map
Syntax
qos dscp-map <CODE-POINT> local-priority<PRIORITY-NUMBER> [color<COLOR>] [cos <DESCRIPTION>]
| no qos dscp-map | <CODE-POINT> |     |     |     |
| --------------- | ------------ | --- | --- | --- |
Description
DefinesthelocalpriorityassignedtoincomingpacketsforaspecificIPdifferentiatedservicescodepoint
(DSCP)value.TheDSCPmapvaluesareusedtoprioritizeincomingpacketswhenQoStrustmodeissetto
dscp.
ToseethedefaultDSCPmapsettings,usethefollowingcommand:
| switch#    | show qos       | dscp-map | default     |      |
| ---------- | -------------- | -------- | ----------- | ---- |
| code_point | local_priority |          | cos color   | name |
| ---------- | -------------- |          | --- ------- | ---- |
| 0          | 1              |          | green       | CS0  |
| 1          | 1              |          | green       |      |
| 2          | 1              |          | green       |      |
| 3          | 1              |          | green       |      |
| 4          | 1              |          | green       |      |
| 5          | 1              |          | green       |      |
...
| 45  | 5   |     | green |     |
| --- | --- | --- | ----- | --- |
| 46  | 5   |     | green | EF  |
| 47  | 5   |     | green |     |
| 48  | 6   |     | green | CS6 |
...
| 61  | 7   |     | green |     |
| --- | --- | --- | ----- | --- |
| 62  | 7   |     | green |     |
| 63  | 7   |     | green |     |
Thenoformofthiscommandrestorestheassignmentsforacodepointtothedefaultsetting.
Commandcontext
config
Parameters
<CODE-POINT>
SpecifiesanIPdifferentiatedservicescodepoint.Range:0to63.Default:0.
| local-priority | <PRIORITY-NUMBER> |     |     |     |
| -------------- | ----------------- | --- | --- | --- |
SpecifiesalocalpriorityvaluetoassociatewiththeCODE-POINTvalue.Range:0to7.Default:0.
AOS-CX10.07QualityofServiceGuide|(8320,8325SwitchSeries) 32

color <COLOR>

Reserved for future use

cos <COS-CODE-POINT>

Specifies an 802.1 VLAN priority CoS remark value. Range: 0 to 7. Default 0

name <DESCRIPTION>

Specifies a description for the DSCP setting. The name is used for identification only, and has no effect
on queue configuration. Range: 1 to 64 alphanumeric characters, including period (.), underscore (_), and
hyphen (-).

Authority

Administrators or local user group members with execution rights for this command.

Examples

Setting code point 1 to a local priority of 2 and a CoS of 0:

switch(config)# qos dscp-map 1 local-priority 2 cos 0

Setting code point 1 to the default value:

switch(config)# no qos dscp-map 1

qos queue-profile

Syntax

qos queue-profile <NAME>
no qos queue-profile <NAME>

Description

Creates a new QoS queue profile and switches to the config-queue context for the profile. Or, if the
specified QoS queue profile exists, this command switches to the config-queue context for the profile.

A queue profile maps queues to local-priority values.

Each profile has eight queues, numbered 0 to 7. The larger the queue number, the higher its priority during
transmission scheduling.

A queue profile named factory-default is defined by default and is automatically applied to all interfaces. It
cannot be edited or deleted. Use the command show qos queue-profile factory-default to view this
profile. Do not use show running-configuration, as it will only display changes from the initial values.

The no form of this command removes the specified QoS queue profile. Only profiles that are not currently
applied can be removed.

Command context

config

Parameters

<NAME>

Specifies the name of the QoS queue profile to create or configure. Range: 1 to 64 alphanumeric
characters, including period (.), underscore (_), and hyphen (-).

Authority

QoS commands | 33

Administratorsorlocalusergroupmemberswithexecutionrightsforthiscommand.
Examples
Creatingtheprofilemyprofile:
| switch(config)# | qos | queue-profile | myprofile |
| --------------- | --- | ------------- | --------- |
switch(config-queue)#
Deletingtheprofilemyprofile:
| switch(config)# | no  | qos queue-profile | myprofile |
| --------------- | --- | ----------------- | --------- |
qos schedule-profile
Syntax
| qos schedule-profile    |     | <NAME> |     |
| ----------------------- | --- | ------ | --- |
| no qos schedule-profile |     | <NAME> |     |
Description
CreatesaQoSscheduleprofileandswitchestotheconfig-schedulecontextfortheprofile.Ifthespecified
scheduleprofileexists,thiscommandswitchestotheconfig-schedulecontextfortheprofile.Theschedule
profiledeterminestheorderinwhichqueuesareselectedtotransmitapacket,andtheamountofservice
definedforeachqueue.
Queuesinascheduleprofilearenumberedconsecutivelystartingfromzero.Queuezeroisthelowest
priorityqueue.Thelargerthequeuenumber,thehigherprioritythequeuehasinschedulingalgorithms.
Aprofilenamedfactory-defaultisdefinedbydefaultandappliedtoallinterfaces.Itcannotbeeditedor
deleted.Toseeitssettings,usethecommand:
| switch#   | show qos  | schedule-profile | factory-default |
| --------- | --------- | ---------------- | --------------- |
| queue_num | algorithm | weight           |                 |
| --------- | --------- | ------           |                 |
| 0         | dwrr      | 1                |                 |
| 1         | dwrr      | 1                |                 |
| 2         | dwrr      | 1                |                 |
| 3         | dwrr      | 1                |                 |
| 4         | dwrr      | 1                |                 |
| 5         | dwrr      | 1                |                 |
| 6         | dwrr      | 1                |                 |
| 7         | dwrr      | 1                |                 |
Aprofilenamedstrictispredefinedandcannotbeeditedordeleted.Thestrictprofileservicesallqueuesof
thequeueprofiletowhichitisapplied,usingthestrictpriorityalgorithm.
Ascheduleprofilemustbedefinedonallinterfacesatalltimes.
Therearetwopermittedconfigurationsforascheduleprofile:
1. Allqueuesusethesameschedulingalgorithm(forexample,DWRR).
2. Thehighestqueuenumberusesstrictpriority,andallremaining(lower)queuesusethesame
algorithm(forexample,DWRR).ThissupportspriorityschedulingbehaviornecessaryfortheIEFTRFC
3246ExpeditedForwardingspecification(https://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc3246).
AOS-CX10.07QualityofServiceGuide|(8320,8325SwitchSeries) 34

Only limited changes can be made to an applied schedule profile:

n The weight of a dwrr queue.

n The bandwidth of a strict queue.

n The algorithm of the highest numbered queue can be swapped between dwrr and strict, and vice versa.

Applicable to REST: Any other changes will result in an unusable schedule profile, and the switch will revert to
the factory-default profile until the profile is corrected.

The no form of this command removes the specified QoS schedule profile when it is not applied. Only
profiles that are not currently applied to an interface can be removed.

Command context

config

Parameters

<NAME>

Specifies the name of the QoS schedule profile to create or configure. Range: 1 to 64 alphanumeric
characters, including period (.), underscore (_), and hyphen (-).

Authority

Administrators or local user group members with execution rights for this command.

Examples

Creating the schedule profile myschedule:

switch(config)# qos schedule-profile myschedule
switch(config-schedule)#

Deleting the schedule profile myschedule:

switch(config)# no qos schedule-profile myschedule

qos shape

Syntax

qos shape <RATE> [burst <SIZE>]
no qos shape

Description

Limits the egress bandwidth on an interface to a value that is lower than its line rate. An optional burst value
may also be specified.

The no form of this command removes shaping from an interface.

Command context

config-if

Parameters

<RATE>

QoS commands | 35

Specifies the maximum traffic rate in kbps. Range 64 to 100000000.

<SIZE>

Authority

Administrators or local user group members with execution rights for this command.

Usage

When the traffic rate destined for the port exceeds the configured egress bandwidth, the switch will buffer
the excess up to the limit of the queues. Rates larger than the interface line rate will have no effect. When
set on a LAG, each member Ethernet port independently shapes its egress bandwidth to the specified rate.

Examples

Configuring an egress port shaping rate of 400 Mbps on interface 1/1/1:

switch(config)# interface 1/1/1
switch(config-if)# qos shape 400000

Deleting egress port shaping on interface 1/1/1:

switch(config)# interface 1/1/1
switch(config-if)# no qos shape

qos threshold-profile

Syntax

qos threshold-profile <NAME>
no qos threshold-profile <NAME>

Description

Creates a QoS threshold profile and switches to the config-threshold context for the profile. If the
specified threshold profile exists, this command switches to the config-threshold context for the existing
profile. The threshold profile determines the action to take when a threshold is exceeded for each queue.

A threshold profile is composed of up to 8 queues, numbered from 0 to 7. Each queue defines the action to
take when buffer utilization exceeds a specific threshold.

Configure queues with the command queue.

The no form of this command removes the specified QoS threshold profile. Only profiles that are not
currently applied to an interface can be removed.

Command context

config

Parameters

<NAME>

Specifies the name of the QoS threshold profile to create or configure. Range: 1 to 64 alphanumeric
characters, including period (.), underscore (_), and hyphen (-).

Authority

Administrators or local user group members with execution rights for this command.

AOS-CX 10.07 Quality of Service Guide | (8320, 8325 Switch Series)

36

Usage

Queues in a threshold profile can be any valid queue number, although it is also valid to create a threshold
profile with no queues specified. Queue zero is the minimum allowed queue number. The maximum
allowed queue number may vary by product. For products supporting eight queues, the largest queue
number is seven. If an applied threshold profile specifies configuration of a queue number that is not in use
based on the configured queue profile, the threshold configuration of that unused queue is ignored.

Examples

Creating the threshold profile mythreshold:

switch(config)# qos threshold-profile mythreshold
switch(config-threshold)#

Deleting the threshold profile myschedule:

switch(config)# no qos threshold-profile mythreshold

qos trust

Syntax

qos trust {none | cos | dscp}
no qos trust

Description

In the config context:

n This command sets the trust mode that is globally applied to all interfaces that do not have a trust mode

configured.

n The no form of this command restores all interfaces that do not currently have a trust mode configured

to the default setting.

In the config-if context:

n This command sets the trust mode override for a specific interface.

n The no form of this command clears a trust mode override. The interface then uses the global setting.

This is the only way to remove a trust mode override.

Command context

config
config-if
config-lag-if

Parameters

none

Ignores all packet headers. Ingress packets are assigned the local priority and color values configured for
CoS map entry 0. Default.

cos

QoS commands | 37

For 802.1 VLAN tagged packets, use the priority code point field from the outermost VLAN header as the
index into the CoS map to obtain the local priority and color values for the packet. If the packet is
untagged, use the local priority and color values configured for CoS map entry 0.

dscp

For IP packets, use the DSCP field from the IP header as the index into the DSCP Map. For non-IP packets
with 802.1 VLAN tags, use the priority code point field from the outermost VLAN header as the index
into the CoS map to obtain the local priority and color values for the packet. For untagged, non-IP
packets, use the local priority and color values configured for CoS map entry 0.

Authority

Administrators or local user group members with execution rights for this command.

Example

Setting the global trust mode to dscp, which is applied to all interfaces that do not already have an
individual trust mode configured. An override is then applied to interface 2/2/2, and LAG 100, setting trust
mode to cos:

switch(config)# qos trust dscp
switch(config)# interface 2/2/2
switch(config-if)# qos trust cos
switch(config-if)# interface lag 100
switch(config-if)# qos trust cos

WARNING: QoS port remark configurations are not applied when the QoS trust mode is mode. This warning

message is seen if a port trust command other than trust none is attempted when there is already a remark
configuration on the port. To restore the old remark configuration, configure the port trust mode to none.

WARNING: QoS port remark configurations are not applied when the global QoS trust mode is mode. This warning

message is seen if a port no qos trust command is attempted when there is already a remark configuration on the

port and the global trust mode is not none. To re-apply the remark configuration, set the port trust mode to none.

queue action

Syntax

queue <QUEUE-NUMBER> action ecn all threshold <AMOUNT>
no queue <QUEUE-NUMBER> action ecn all threshold <AMOUNT>

Description

Defines the threshold value and action for a queue in a threshold-profile. When queue utilization exceeds
the threshold value, ECT (ECN-Capable Transport) packets will be CE (Congestion Encountered) marked when
transmitted.

The no form of this command removes the settings for a queue.

Command context

AOS-CX 10.07 Quality of Service Guide | (8320, 8325 Switch Series)

38

config-threshold

Parameters

<QUEUE-NUMBER>

Specifies the queue number. Range: 0 to 7.

action ecn

Apply ECN when the threshold is exceeded.

all

Applies the action to all colors. Colors are reserved for future use.

threshold <AMOUNT> kbytes

Specifies the threshold value in kbytes from 0 to 1700.

Authority

Administrators or local user group members with execution rights for this command.

Examples

Assigning a threshold of 40 kilobytes to queue 7 in profile mythreshold:

switch(config)# qos threshold-profile mythreshold
switch(config-threshold)# queue 7 action ecn all threshold 40 kbytes

Removing a threshold of 40 kilobytes from queue 7 in profile mythreshold:

switch(config)# qos threshold-profile mythreshold
switch(config-threshold)# no queue 7

rate-limit

Syntax

rate-limit {broadcast | multicast | unknown-unicast} <RATE> pps
no rate-limit {broadcast | multicast | unknown-unicast}

Description

Sets the amount of traffic of a specific type that can ingress on an Ethernet port, or on each port of a LAG
interface. Rate limits are enforced separately on each individual member of a LAG, not on the LAG as a
whole.

The no form of this command removes the traffic limit for the specified traffic type.

Command context

config-if

Parameters

{broadcast | multicast | unknown-unicast}

Specifies the type of ingress traffic to which the rate limit applies: broadcast, multicast, or unknown-
unicast. The multicast rate limit affects multicast and broadcast traffic. The broadcast rate limit only
affects broadcast traffic. When both types are applied to the same interface, broadcast packets are
limited to the lower of the two rate values. Layer 2 BPDU packets, like spanning tree, are also included in
the multicast rate limit.

rate

QoS commands | 39

Specifiestheratelimitinpacketspersecond(pps).Range:64to209090910pps.Theactualratelimit
varieswithstepsapproximatelyequaltotheminimumvalue.Verifytheactualratelimitusingthe
| commandshow |     | interface |     | <INTERFACE-NAME>. |     |     |     |
| ----------- | --- | --------- | --- | ----------------- | --- | --- | --- |
Authority
Administratorsorlocalusergroupmemberswithexecutionrightsforthiscommand.
Examples
| Limitingmulticasttrafficto4000 |     |           |            | ppsoninterface1/3/3: |     |      |     |
| ------------------------------ | --- | --------- | ---------- | -------------------- | --- | ---- | --- |
| switch(config)#                |     | interface |            | 1/3/3                |     |      |     |
| switch(config-if)#             |     |           | rate-limit | multicast            |     | 4000 | pps |
Viewingtheresultsofthepreviousconfigurationsetting.
| switch#   | show      | interface |      | 1/3/3 qos         |                   |       |     |
| --------- | --------- | --------- | ---- | ----------------- | ----------------- | ----- | --- |
| Interface | 1/3/3     | is        | down | (Administratively |                   | down) |     |
| Admin     | state     | is down   |      |                   |                   |       |     |
| Hardware: | Ethernet, |           | MAC  | Address:          | 1c:98:ec:e3:6a:00 |       |     |
| MTU 1500  |           |           |      |                   |                   |       |     |
Full-duplex
| rate-limit       | multicast    |     | 4000      | pps         | (4000        | actual) |        |
| ---------------- | ------------ | --- | --------- | ----------- | ------------ | ------- | ------ |
| Speed            | 0 Mb/s       |     |           |             |              |         |        |
| Auto-Negotiation |              |     | is turned | on          |              |         |        |
| Input            | flow-control |     | is        | off, output | flow-control |         | is off |
RX
|     | 0   | input | packets |     |     | 0 bytes   |     |
| --- | --- | ----- | ------- | --- | --- | --------- | --- |
|     | 0   | input | error   |     |     | 0 dropped |     |
0 CRC/FCS
L3:
|     | ucast: |     | 0 packets, | 0   | bytes |     |     |
| --- | ------ | --- | ---------- | --- | ----- | --- | --- |
|     | mcast: |     | 0 packets, | 0   | bytes |     |     |
TX
|     | 0   | output | packets |     |     | 0 bytes   |     |
| --- | --- | ------ | ------- | --- | --- | --------- | --- |
|     | 0   | input  | error   |     |     | 0 dropped |     |
0 collision
L3:
|                              | ucast: |           | 0 packets, | 0            | bytes |        |     |
| ---------------------------- | ------ | --------- | ---------- | ------------ | ----- | ------ | --- |
|                              | mcast: |           | 0 packets, | 0            | bytes |        |     |
| Limitingbroadcasttrafficto50 |        |           |            | ppsonLAG100. |       |        |     |
| switch#                      | config |           |            |              |       |        |     |
| switch(config)#              |        | interface |            | 1/3/3        |       |        |     |
| switch(config-if)#           |        |           | interface  | lag          | 100   |        |     |
| switch(config-if)#           |        |           | rate-limit | broadcast    |       | 50 pps |     |
| show interface               |        |           | queues     |              |       |        |     |
Syntax
| show interface | <INTERFACE-NAME> |     |     | queues |     |     |     |
| -------------- | ---------------- | --- | --- | ------ | --- | --- | --- |
Description
AOS-CX10.07QualityofServiceGuide|(8320,8325SwitchSeries) 40

Displaysinterface-levelqueuestatistics.
Commandcontext
Operator(>)orManager(#)
Parameters
<INTERFACE-NAME>
SpecifiesthenameofaninterfaceorLAGontheswitch.Format:member/slot/portorlag <ID>.
Authority
OperatorsorAdministratorsorlocalusergroupmemberswithexecutionrightsforthiscommand.
Operatorscanexecutethiscommandfromtheoperatorcontext(>)only.
Usage
Statisticsinclude:
Tx Bytes:Totalbytestransmitted.Thebytecountmayincludepacketheadersandinternalmetadata
n
thatareremovedbeforethepacketistransmitted.Packetheadersaddedwhenthepacketistransmitted
maynotbeincluded.
n Tx Packets:Totalpacketstransmitted.
n Tx Drops:Totalpacketsdroppedbyanegressqueueduetoinsufficientcapacity.
Examples
| Showingqueuestatisticsforinterface |           | 1/1/5        |     |          |
| ---------------------------------- | --------- | ------------ | --- | -------- |
| switch# show                       | interface | 1/1/5 queues |     |          |
| Interface                          | 5 is down |              |     |          |
| Admin state                        | is up     |              |     |          |
|                                    | Tx Bytes  | Tx Packets   |     | Tx Drops |
| Q0                                 |           | 0            | 0   | 3        |
| Q1                                 | 15356     |              | 73  | 0        |
| Q2                                 |           | 0            | 0   | 0        |
| Q3                                 |           | 0            | 0   | 0        |
| Q4                                 |           | 0            | 0   | 0        |
| Q5                                 |           | 0            | 0   | 0        |
| Q6                                 |           | 0            | 0   | 0        |
| Q7                                 |           | 0            | 0   | 0        |
| Showingqueuestatisticsforinterface |           | lag 1        |     |          |
| switch# show                       | interface | lag 1 queues |     |          |
| Aggregate-name                     | lag1      |              |     |          |
| Aggregated-interfaces              |           | :            |     |          |
1/1/6 1/1/7
| Speed 20000 | Mb/s     |            |     |          |
| ----------- | -------- | ---------- | --- | -------- |
|             | Tx Bytes | Tx Packets |     | Tx Drops |
| Q0          |          | 0          | 0   | 0        |
| Q1          |          | 0          | 0   | 0        |
| Q2          |          | 0          | 0   | 0        |
| Q3          |          | 0          | 0   | 0        |
| Q4          |          | 0          | 0   | 0        |
| Q5          |          | 0          | 0   | 0        |
| Q6          |          | 0          | 0   | 0        |
QoScommands |41

| Q7             |     | 3450 |     |     | 25  | 0   |
| -------------- | --- | ---- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| show interface |     |      | qos |     |     |     |
Syntax
| show interface | <INTERFACE-NAME> |     | qos |     |     |     |
| -------------- | ---------------- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
Description
ShowsvariousQoSsettingsforaspecificinterface.
Commandcontext
Operator(>)orManager(#)
Parameters
<INTERFACE-NAME>
Specifiesthenameofaninterfaceontheswitch.Format:member/slot/port or lag number.
[vsx-peer]
ShowstheoutputfromtheVSXpeerswitch.IftheswitchesdonothavetheVSXconfigurationortheISL
isdown,theoutputfromtheVSXpeerswitchisnotdisplayed.Thisparameterisavailableonswitches
thatsupportVSX.
Authority
OperatorsorAdministratorsorlocalusergroupmemberswithexecutionrightsforthiscommand.
Operatorscanexecutethiscommandfromtheoperatorcontext(>)only.
Examples
ShowingQoSsettingsforinterface1/1/5:
| switch#              | show interface  |                 | 1/1/5 qos  |            |             |     |
| -------------------- | --------------- | --------------- | ---------- | ---------- | ----------- | --- |
| Interface            | 1/1/5           | is down         |            |            |             |     |
| Admin                | state is        | up              |            |            |             |     |
| qos trust            | none            | (global)        |            |            |             |     |
| qos queue-profile    |                 | factory-default |            |            | (global)    |     |
| qos schedule-profile |                 |                 | EQSExample | (override) |             |     |
| qos dscp             | 47              |                 |            |            |             |     |
| rate-limit           | unknown-unicast |                 | 64         | pps        | (64 actual) |     |
| rate-limit           | broadcast       |                 | 500 pps    | (500       | actual)     |     |
| rate-limit           | multicast       |                 | 500 pps    | (500       | actual)     |     |
|                      | Max-Bandwidth   |                 | Pps        | Burst      | KB          |     |
| Q1                   |                 | 10082461        |            |            | 120         |     |
| Q4                   |                 | 20164923        |            |            | 32          |     |
| Q7                   |                 | 30247384        |            |            | 120         |     |
| show qos             | cos-map         |                 |            |            |             |     |
Syntax
| show qos cos-map | [default] |     | [vsx-peer] |     |     |     |
| ---------------- | --------- | --- | ---------- | --- | --- | --- |
Description
AOS-CX10.07QualityofServiceGuide|(8320,8325SwitchSeries) 42

ShowstheglobalQoSCoScodepointsettings,orthefactorydefaultsettings.
Commandcontext
Operator(>)orManager(#)
Parameters
[default]
ShowsthefactorydefaultCoScodepointsettings.
[vsx-peer]
ShowstheoutputfromtheVSXpeerswitch.IftheswitchesdonothavetheVSXconfigurationortheISL
isdown,theoutputfromtheVSXpeerswitchisnotdisplayed.Thisparameterisavailableonswitches
thatsupportVSX.
Authority
OperatorsorAdministratorsorlocalusergroupmemberswithexecutionrightsforthiscommand.
Operatorscanexecutethiscommandfromtheoperatorcontext(>)only.
Examples
ShowingthecurrentCoSmap:
| switch#    | show           | qos cos-map |                             |
| ---------- | -------------- | ----------- | --------------------------- |
| code_point | local_priority |             | color name                  |
| ---------- | -------------- |             | ------- ----                |
| 0          | 2              |             | green Bulk                  |
| 1          | 0              |             | green Scavenger             |
| 2          | 1              |             | green Best_Effort           |
| 3          | 3              |             | green Critical_Applications |
| 4          | 4              |             | green Video                 |
| 5          | 5              |             | green Voice                 |
| 6          | 6              |             | green Internetwork_Control  |
| 7          | 7              |             | green Network_Control       |
ShowingthedefaultCoSmap:
| switch#            | show           | qos cos-map | default                     |
| ------------------ | -------------- | ----------- | --------------------------- |
| code_point         | local_priority |             | color name                  |
| ----------         | -------------- |             | ------- ----                |
| 0                  | 1              |             | green Best_Effort           |
| 1                  | 0              |             | green Background            |
| 2                  | 2              |             | green Excellent_Effort      |
| 3                  | 3              |             | green Critical_Applications |
| 4                  | 4              |             | green Video                 |
| 5                  | 5              |             | green Voice                 |
| 6                  | 6              |             | green Internetwork_Control  |
| 7                  | 7              |             | green Network_Control       |
| (Color is reserved |                | for future  | use.)                       |
| show qos           | dscp-map       |             |                             |
Syntax
| show qos dscp-map |     | [default] | [vsx-peer] |
| ----------------- | --- | --------- | ---------- |
Description
QoScommands |43

DisplaysthecurrentordefaultglobalQoSdscp-map.
Commandcontext
Operator(>)orManager(#)
Parameters
[default]
ShowsthefactorydefaultDSCPcodepointsettings.
[vsx-peer]
ShowstheoutputfromtheVSXpeerswitch.IftheswitchesdonothavetheVSXconfigurationortheISL
isdown,theoutputfromtheVSXpeerswitchisnotdisplayed.Thisparameterisavailableonswitches
thatsupportVSX.
Authority
OperatorsorAdministratorsorlocalusergroupmemberswithexecutionrightsforthiscommand.
Operatorscanexecutethiscommandfromtheoperatorcontext(>)only.
Examples
ShowingthecurrentQoSDSCPmap:
| switch#    | show qos dscp-map |              |
| ---------- | ----------------- | ------------ |
| code_point | local_priority    | color name   |
| ---------- | --------------    | ------- ---- |
| 0          | 1                 | green CS0    |
| 1          | 1                 | green        |
| 2          | 1                 | green        |
| 3          | 1                 | green        |
| 4          | 1                 | green        |
| 5          | 1                 | green        |
| 6          | 1                 | green        |
| 7          | 1                 | green        |
| 8          | 0                 | green CS1    |
...
| 45  | 5   | green     |
| --- | --- | --------- |
| 46  | 7   | green EF  |
| 47  | 5   | green     |
| 48  | 6   | green CS6 |
...
| 61  | 7   | green |
| --- | --- | ----- |
| 62  | 7   | green |
| 63  | 7   | green |
ShowingthedefaultQoSDSCPmap:
| switch#    | show qos dscp-map | default      |
| ---------- | ----------------- | ------------ |
| code_point | local_priority    | color name   |
| ---------- | --------------    | ------- ---- |
| 0          | 1                 | green CS0    |
| 1          | 1                 | green        |
| 2          | 1                 | green        |
| 3          | 1                 | green        |
| 4          | 1                 | green        |
| 5          | 1                 | green        |
...
| 45  | 5   | green |
| --- | --- | ----- |
AOS-CX10.07QualityofServiceGuide|(8320,8325SwitchSeries) 44

| 46  | 5   |     | green EF  |
| --- | --- | --- | --------- |
| 47  | 5   |     | green     |
| 48  | 6   |     | green CS6 |
...
| 61                 | 7             |            | green |
| ------------------ | ------------- | ---------- | ----- |
| 62                 | 7             |            | green |
| 63                 | 7             |            | green |
| (Color is reserved |               | for future | use.) |
| show qos           | queue-profile |            |       |
Syntax
| show qos queue-profile |     | [<NAME> | | factory-default][vsx-peer] |
| ---------------------- | --- | ------- | ---------------------------- |
Description
Showsthestatusofallqueueprofiles,oraspecificqueueprofile.
Commandcontext
Operator(>)orManager(#)
Parameters
<NAME>
Specifiesthenameofaqueueprofile.Range1to64alphanumericcharacters,includingperiod(.),
underscore(_),andhyphen(-).
factory-default
Specifiesthefactorydefaultqueueprofile.
[vsx-peer]
ShowstheoutputfromtheVSXpeerswitch.IftheswitchesdonothavetheVSXconfigurationortheISL
isdown,theoutputfromtheVSXpeerswitchisnotdisplayed.Thisparameterisavailableonswitches
thatsupportVSX.
Authority
OperatorsorAdministratorsorlocalusergroupmemberswithexecutionrightsforthiscommand.
Operatorscanexecutethiscommandfromtheoperatorcontext(>)only.
Usage
Thestatusofaqueueprofilecanbe:
Applied-Theprofileisactivelybeingusedbytheswitch.
n
Complete-Theprofilemeetsthecriteriatobeapplied.
n
Incomplete-Theprofiledoesnotmeetthecriteriatobeapplied.
n
Foraqueueprofiletobecompleteandreadytobeapplied:
Alleightlocalprioritiesmustbemappedtosomequeue.
n
n Therecanbe1to8queues.
Examples
Showingthestatusofallqueueprofiles
QoScommands |45

| switch#        | show qos queue-profile |     |
| -------------- | ---------------------- | --- |
| profile_status | profile_name           |     |
| -------------- | ------------           |     |
| applied        | dot1d                  |     |
| complete       | factory-default        |     |
Showingthesettingsofthefactorydefaultqueueprofile
| switch#   | show qos queue-profile | factory-default |
| --------- | ---------------------- | --------------- |
| queue_num | local_priorities       | name            |
| --------- | ----------------       | ----            |
| 0         | 0                      |                 |
| 1         | 1                      |                 |
| 2         | 2                      |                 |
| 3         | 3                      |                 |
| 4         | 4                      |                 |
| 5         | 5                      |                 |
| 6         | 6                      |                 |
| 7         | 7                      |                 |
| show qos  | schedule-profile       |                 |
Syntax
show qos schedule-profile [<NAME> | factory-default | strict] [vsx-peer]
Description
Showsthestatusofallscheduleprofiles,oraspecificscheduleprofile.
Commandcontext
Operator(>)orManager(#)
Parameters
<NAME>
Specifiesthenameofaqueueorscheduleprofile.Range:1to64alphanumericcharacters,including
period(.),underscore(_),andhyphen(-).
factory-default
Specifiesthefactorydefaultqueueprofile.
[vsx-peer]
ShowstheoutputfromtheVSXpeerswitch.IftheswitchesdonothavetheVSXconfigurationortheISL
isdown,theoutputfromtheVSXpeerswitchisnotdisplayed.Thisparameterisavailableonswitches
thatsupportVSX.
Authority
OperatorsorAdministratorsorlocalusergroupmemberswithexecutionrightsforthiscommand.
Operatorscanexecutethiscommandfromtheoperatorcontext(>)only.
Usage
Thestatusofascheduleprofilecanbe:
AOS-CX10.07QualityofServiceGuide|(8320,8325SwitchSeries) 46

Applied-Theprofileisactivelybeingusedbyoneormoreports.
n
Complete-Theprofilemeetsthecriteriatobeapplied.
n
Incomplete-Theprofiledoesnotmeetthecriteriatobeapplied.
n
Forascheduleprofiletobecompleteandreadytobeapplieditmusthave:
Analgorithmforeachqueuedefinedbytheappliedqueueprofile.
n
n Allqueuesmustusethesamealgorithmexceptforthehighestnumberedqueue,whichmaybestrict.
Examples
Showingthestatusofallscheduleprofiles
switch#
show qos schedule-profile
| profile_status | profile_name    |     |     |
| -------------- | --------------- | --- | --- |
| -------------- | ------------    |     |     |
| applied        | myschedule      |     |     |
| complete       | factory-default |     |     |
| complete       | Test            |     |     |
Showingtheconfigurationoffactorydefaultscheduleprofile
| switch#   | show qos          | schedule-profile | factory-default |
| --------- | ----------------- | ---------------- | --------------- |
| queue_num | algorithm         | weight           |                 |
| --------- | ---------         | ------           |                 |
| 0         | dwrr              | 1                |                 |
| 1         | dwrr              | 1                |                 |
| 2         | dwrr              | 1                |                 |
| 3         | dwrr              | 1                |                 |
| 4         | dwrr              | 1                |                 |
| 5         | dwrr              | 1                |                 |
| 6         | dwrr              | 1                |                 |
| 7         | dwrr              | 1                |                 |
| show qos  | threshold-profile |                  |                 |
Syntax
| show qos threshold-profile |     | [<NAME> | [vsx-peer] |
| -------------------------- | --- | ------- | ---------- |
Description
Showsthestatusofallthresholdprofiles,oraspecificthresholdprofile.
Commandcontext
Operator(>)orManager(#)
Parameters
<NAME>
Specifiesthenameofathresholdprofile.Range:1to64alphanumericcharacters,includingperiod(.),
underscore(_),andhyphen(-).
[vsx-peer]
ShowstheoutputfromtheVSXpeerswitch.IftheswitchesdonothavetheVSXconfigurationortheISL
isdown,theoutputfromtheVSXpeerswitchisnotdisplayed.Thisparameterisavailableonswitches
thatsupportVSX.
QoScommands |47

Authority
OperatorsorAdministratorsorlocalusergroupmemberswithexecutionrightsforthiscommand.
Operatorscanexecutethiscommandfromtheoperatorcontext(>)only.
Examples
Showingthestatusofallthresholdprofiles
| switch#                | show qos | threshold-profile |     |
| ---------------------- | -------- | ----------------- | --- |
| profile_status         |          | profile_name      |     |
| ---------------------- |          | ------------      |     |
CustomThresh
| applied |     | mythreshold |     |
| ------- | --- | ----------- | --- |
ShowingconfigurationforQoSthresholdprofilemythreshold
| switch#   | show qos             | threshold-profile | mythreshold |
| --------- | -------------------- | ----------------- | ----------- |
| queue_num | action               | Threshold         |             |
| --------- | -------              | ---------         |             |
| 5         | ecn                  | 40                |             |
| 7         | ecn                  | 50                |             |
| Ports     | Status               |                   |             |
| --------- | -------------------- |                   |             |
| 1/1/1     | applied              |                   |             |
| 1/1/8     | applied              |                   |             |
| 1/2/2     | applied              |                   |             |
| show qos  | trust                |                   |             |
Syntax
| show qos trust | [default] | [vsx-peer] |     |
| -------------- | --------- | ---------- | --- |
Description
ShowstheglobalQoStrustsettings,orthefactorydefaultsettings.
Commandcontext
Operator(>)orManager(#)
Parameters
default
ShowsthefactorydefaultQoStrustsettings.
[vsx-peer]
ShowstheoutputfromtheVSXpeerswitch.IftheswitchesdonothavetheVSXconfigurationortheISL
isdown,theoutputfromtheVSXpeerswitchisnotdisplayed.Thisparameterisavailableonswitches
thatsupportVSX.
Authority
OperatorsorAdministratorsorlocalusergroupmemberswithexecutionrightsforthiscommand.
Operatorscanexecutethiscommandfromtheoperatorcontext(>)only.
Examples
AOS-CX10.07QualityofServiceGuide|(8320,8325SwitchSeries) 48

ShowingthecurrentQoStrustsettings:
| switch# show | qos trust |     |     |
| ------------ | --------- | --- | --- |
| qos trust    | cos       |     |     |
ShowingthedefaultQoStrustsettings:
| switch# show | qos trust | default |     |
| ------------ | --------- | ------- | --- |
| qos trust    | none      |         |     |
strict queue
Syntax
strict queue <QUEUE-NUMBER> [[max-bandwidth <BANDWIDTH>] [burst <BURST>]
| no strict queue | <QUEUE-NUMBER> |     |     |
| --------------- | -------------- | --- | --- |
Description
Assignsthestrictpriorityalgorithmtoaqueue.Strictpriorityservicesallpacketswaitinginaqueue,before
servicingthepacketsinlowerpriorityqueues.
Egressqueueshapingcanbeconfiguredusingthemax-bandwidthandburstoptionstolimittheamountof
traffictransmittedperoutputqueue.Thebufferassociatedwitheachegressqueuestorestheexcesstraffic
toabsorbburstsandsmooththeoutputrate.Sustainedratesoftrafficabovethemaximumbandwidthwill
eventuallyfilltheoutputqueuecausingtaildrops.Usethecommandshow interfacetodetermineifany
taildroperrorshaveoccurred.
Thenoformofthiscommandremovesthethequeueconfigurationfromthescheduleprofile.Toremove
onlyegressqueueshaping,re-enterthestrictqueuecommandwithoutthemax-bandwidthandburst
parameters.
Commandcontext
config-schedule
Parameters
<QUEUE-NUMBER>
Specifiesthenumberofthequeue.Range:0to7.
| max-bandwidth | <BANDWIDTH> |     |     |
| ------------- | ----------- | --- | --- |
SpecifiesthemaximumbandwidthallowedonthequeueinKbps.Range:1to4294967295.
burst <BURST>
Specifiesthemaximumburstallowedonthequeue.Range:1to127Kbps.Default:32Kbps.
Authority
Administratorsorlocalusergroupmemberswithexecutionrightsforthiscommand.
Examples
Assigningstrictprioritytoqueue7inthescheduleprofilemyschedule:
| switch(config)#          | qos | schedule-profile | myschedule |
| ------------------------ | --- | ---------------- | ---------- |
| switch(config-schedule)# |     | strict queue     | 7          |
QoScommands |49

Deletingstrictpriorityfromqueue7inthescheduleprofilemyschedule:
| switch(config)#          | qos schedule-profile | myschedule |     |
| ------------------------ | -------------------- | ---------- | --- |
| switch(config-schedule)# | no strict            | queue 7    |     |
Assigningstrictprioritytoqueue7inthescheduleprofilemyschedulewithamaximumbandwidthof
10000Kbpsandaburstof62Kbps:
| switch(config)# | qos schedule-profile | myschedule |     |
| --------------- | -------------------- | ---------- | --- |
switch(config-schedule)# strict queue 7 max-bandwith 10000 burst 62
Assigningstrictprioritytoqueue7inthescheduleprofilemyschedulewithamaximumbandwidthof
10000Kbps:
| switch(config)#          | qos schedule-profile | myschedule           |       |
| ------------------------ | -------------------- | -------------------- | ----- |
| switch(config-schedule)# | strict               | queue 7 max-bandwith | 10000 |
AOS-CX10.07QualityofServiceGuide|(8320,8325SwitchSeries) 50

Support and Other Resources

Chapter 5

Support and Other Resources

Accessing Aruba Support

Aruba Support Services

https://www.arubanetworks.com/support-services/

Aruba Support Portal

https://asp.arubanetworks.com/

North America telephone

1-800-943-4526 (US & Canada Toll-Free Number)

+1-408-754-1200 (Primary - Toll Number)

+1-650-385-6582 (Backup - Toll Number - Use only when all other
numbers are not working)

International telephone

https://www.arubanetworks.com/support-services/contact-
support/

Be sure to collect the following information before contacting Support:

n Technical support registration number (if applicable)

n Product name, model or version, and serial number

n Operating system name and version

n Firmware version

n Error messages

n Product-specific reports and logs

n Add-on products or components

n Third-party products or components

Other useful sites

Other websites that can be used to find information:

Airheads social forums and Knowledge
Base

https://community.arubanetworks.com/

Software licensing

https://lms.arubanetworks.com/

End-of-Life information

https://www.arubanetworks.com/support-services/end-of-life/

Aruba software and documentation

https://asp.arubanetworks.com/downloads

Accessing Updates
You can access updates from the Aruba Support Portal or the HPE My Networking Website.

Aruba Support Portal

AOS-CX 10.07 Quality of Service Guide | (8320, 8325 Switch Series)

51

https://asp.arubanetworks.com/downloads

If you are unable to find your product in the Aruba Support Portal, you may need to search My Networking,
where older networking products can be found:

My Networking

https://www.hpe.com/networking/support

To view and update your entitlements, and to link your contracts and warranties with your profile, go to the
Hewlett Packard Enterprise Support Center More Information on Access to Support Materials page:

https://support.hpe.com/portal/site/hpsc/aae/home/

Access to some updates might require product entitlement when accessed through the Hewlett Packard
Enterprise Support Center. You must have an HP Passport set up with relevant entitlements.

Some software products provide a mechanism for accessing software updates through the product
interface. Review your product documentation to identify the recommended software update method.

To subscribe to eNewsletters and alerts:

https://asp.arubanetworks.com/notifications/subscriptions (requires an active Aruba Support Portal (ASP)
account to manage subscriptions). Security notices are viewable without an ASP account.

Warranty Information
To view warranty information for your product, go to https://www.arubanetworks.com/support-
services/product-warranties/.

Regulatory Information
To view the regulatory information for your product, view the Safety and Compliance Information for Server,
Storage, Power, Networking, and Rack Products, available at https://www.hpe.com/support/Safety-
Compliance-EnterpriseProducts

Additional regulatory information

Aruba is committed to providing our customers with information about the chemical substances in our
products as needed to comply with legal requirements, environmental data (company programs, product
recycling, energy efficiency), and safety information and compliance data, (RoHS and WEEE). For more
information, see https://www.arubanetworks.com/company/about-us/environmental-citizenship/.

Documentation Feedback
Aruba is committed to providing documentation that meets your needs. To help us improve the
documentation, send any errors, suggestions, or comments to Documentation Feedback (docsfeedback-
switching@hpe.com). When submitting your feedback, include the document title, part number, edition,
and publication date located on the front cover of the document. For online help content, include the
product name, product version, help edition, and publication date located on the legal notices page.

Support and Other Resources | 52