AOS-CX 10.10 CoPP Guide

83xx, 9300, 10000 Switch Series

Published: August 2022

Version: 2

Copyright Information

© Copyright 2024 Hewlett Packard Enterprise Development LP.

This product includes code licensed under certain open source licenses which require source
compliance. The corresponding source for these components is available upon request. This offer is
valid to anyone in receipt of this information and shall expire three years following the date of the final
distribution of this product version by Hewlett Packard Enterprise Company. To obtain such source
code, please check if the code is available in the HPE Software Center at
https://myenterpriselicense.hpe.com/cwp-ui/software but, if not, send a written request for specific
software version and product for which you want the open source code. Along with the request, please
send a check or money order in the amount of US $10.00 to:

Hewlett Packard Enterprise Company
Attn: General Counsel
WW Corporate Headquarters
1701 E Mossy Oaks Rd Spring, TX 77389
United States of America.

| 2

Notices

The information contained herein is subject to change without notice. The only warranties for Hewlett
Packard Enterprise products and services are set forth in the express warranty statements
accompanying such products and services. Nothing herein should be construed as constituting an
additional warranty. Hewlett Packard Enterprise shall not be liable for technical or editorial errors or
omissions contained herein.

Confidential computer software. Valid license from Hewlett Packard Enterprise required for possession,
use, or copying. Consistent with FAR 12.211 and 12.212, Commercial Computer Software, Computer
Software Documentation, and Technical Data for Commercial Items are licensed to the U.S. Government
under vendor's standard commercial license.

Links to third-party websites take you outside the Hewlett Packard Enterprise website. Hewlett Packard
Enterprise has no control over and is not responsible for information outside the Hewlett Packard
Enterprise website.

AOS-CX 10.10 CoPP Guide | (83xx, 9300, 10000 Switches)

3

Contents
| About                               | this document                  |           | 5   |
| ----------------------------------- | ------------------------------ | --------- | --- |
| Applicableproducts                  |                                |           | 5   |
| Latestversionavailableonline        |                                |           | 5   |
| Commandsyntaxnotationconventions    |                                |           | 5   |
| Abouttheexamples                    |                                |           | 6   |
| Identifyingswitchportsandinterfaces |                                |           | 6   |
| Control                             | Plane Policing                 | (CoPP)    | 8   |
| Overview                            |                                |           | 8   |
| ConfiguringCoPP                     |                                |           | 8   |
|                                     | Example                        |           | 8   |
| CoPPcommands                        |                                |           | 9   |
|                                     | Classesoftraffic               |           | 9   |
|                                     | applycopp-policy               |           | 11  |
|                                     | class                          |           | 12  |
|                                     | clearcopp-policystatistics     |           | 13  |
|                                     | copp-policy                    |           | 14  |
|                                     | default-class                  |           | 15  |
|                                     | resetcopp-policy               |           | 16  |
|                                     | showcopp-policy                |           | 17  |
|                                     | showcopp-policyfactory-default |           | 19  |
|                                     | showcopp-policystatistics      |           | 20  |
|                                     | showtechcopp                   |           | 22  |
| Support                             | and Other                      | Resources | 24  |
| AccessingHPEArubaNetworkingSupport  |                                |           | 24  |
| AccessingUpdates                    |                                |           | 25  |
|                                     | ArubaSupportPortal             |           | 25  |
|                                     | MyNetworking                   |           | 25  |
| WarrantyInformation                 |                                |           | 25  |
| RegulatoryInformation               |                                |           | 26  |
| DocumentationFeedback               |                                |           | 26  |
4
AOS-CX10.10CoPPGuide| (83xx,9300,10000Switches)

Chapter 1

About this document

About this document

This document describes features of the AOS-CX network operating system. It is intended for
administrators responsible for installing, configuring, and managing Aruba switches on a network.

Applicable products

This document applies to the following products:

n Aruba 8320 Switch Series (JL479A, JL579A, JL581A)

n Aruba 8325 Switch Series (JL624A, JL625A, JL626A, JL627A)

n Aruba 8360 Switch Series (JL700A, JL701A, JL702A, JL703A, JL706A, JL707A, JL708A, JL709A, JL710A,

JL711A, JL700C, JL701C, JL702C, JL703C, JL706C, JL707C, JL708C, JL709C, JL710C, JL711C, JL704C, JL705C,
JL719C, JL718C, JL717C, JL720C, JL722C, JL721C )

n Aruba 9300 Switch Series (R9A29A, R9A30A, R8Z96A)

n Aruba 10000 Switch Series (R8P13A, R8P14A)

Latest version available online

Updates to this document can occur after initial publication. For the latest versions of product
documentation, see the links provided in Support and Other Resources.

Command syntax notation conventions

Convention

example-text

Usage

Identifies commands and their options and operands, code examples,
filenames, pathnames, and output displayed in a command window. Items
that appear like the example text in the previous column are to be entered
exactly as shown and are required unless enclosed in brackets ([ ]).

example-text

In code and screen examples, indicates text entered by a user.

Any of the following:
n <example-text>
n <example-text>
n example-text

n example-text

Identifies a placeholder—such as a parameter or a variable—that you must
substitute with an actual value in a command or in code:

n For output formats where italic text cannot be displayed, variables
are enclosed in angle brackets (< >). Substitute the text—including
the enclosing angle brackets—with an actual value.

n For output formats where italic text can be displayed, variables

might or might not be enclosed in angle brackets. Substitute the
text including the enclosing angle brackets, if any, with an actual
value.

AOS-CX 10.10 CoPP Guide | (83xx, 9300, 10000 Switches)

5

Convention

Usage

|

{ }

[ ]

… or

...

Vertical bar. A logical OR that separates multiple items from which you can
choose only one.
Any spaces that are on either side of the vertical bar are included for
readability and are not a required part of the command syntax.

Braces. Indicates that at least one of the enclosed items is required.

Brackets. Indicates that the enclosed item or items are optional.

Ellipsis:

n In code and screen examples, a vertical or horizontal ellipsis indicates an

omission of information.

n In syntax using brackets and braces, an ellipsis indicates items that can be

repeated. When an item followed by ellipses is enclosed in brackets, zero

or more items can be specified.

About the examples

Examples in this document are representative and might not match your particular switch or
environment.

The slot and port numbers in this document are for illustration only and might be unavailable on your
switch.

Understanding the CLI prompts

When illustrating the prompts in the command line interface (CLI), this document uses the generic term
switch, instead of the host name of the switch. For example:
switch>

The CLI prompt indicates the current command context. For example:
switch>

Indicates the operator command context.

switch#

Indicates the manager command context.

switch(CONTEXT-NAME)#

Indicates the configuration context for a feature. For example:

switch(config-if)#

Identifies the interface context.

Variable information in CLI prompts

In certain configuration contexts, the prompt may include variable information. For example, when in
the VLAN configuration context, a VLAN number appears in the prompt:
switch(config-vlan-100)#

When referring to this context, this document uses the syntax:
switch(config-vlan-<VLAN-ID>)#

Where <VLAN-ID> is a variable representing the VLAN number.

Identifying switch ports and interfaces

About this document | 6

Physical ports on the switch and their corresponding logical software interfaces are identified using the
format:
member/slot/port

On the 83xx, 9300, and 10000 Switch Series

n member: Always 1. VSF is not supported on this switch.

n slot: Always 1. This is not a modular switch, so there are no slots.

n port: Physical number of a port on the switch.

For example, the logical interface 1/1/4 in software is associated with physical port 4 on the switch.

If using breakout cables, the port designation changes to x:y, where x is the physical port and y is the lane when

split to 4 x 10G or 4 x 25G. For example, the logical interface 1/1/4:2 in software is associated with lane 2 on

physical port 4 in slot 1 on member 1.

AOS-CX 10.10 CoPP Guide | (83xx, 9300, 10000 Switches)

7

Chapter 2

Control Plane Policing (CoPP)

Control Plane Policing (CoPP)

Overview

CoPP provides a way for administrators to protect the management processor on the switch from high
packet loads (generated by malicious or nonmalicious sources) that might interfere with its ability to
keep data plane traffic flowing. For example, a denial of service attack can result in excessive traffic that
would slow down the management processor and negatively affect switch throughput.

A CoPP policy is composed of one or more classes. Each class defines one or more target protocols and
how their traffic is managed. Every policy also has a default class to regulate packets that do not match
any other class. The following actions can be applied for all packets matching a class:

n Drop the packets. (Excluding the default class.)

n Set the processing priority in the range 0 to 7 (0 - highest priority and 7 - lowest priority).

n Set the maximum data rate in packets per second (pps) at which each line module can send packets

to the management processor.

n Set the maximum burst size in packets at which each line module can send packets to the

management processor.

Up to 32 CoPP policies can be defined, but only one can be active on the switch at a time.

A CoPP policy must always be active on the switch. By default, the switch has a CoPP policy named
default which is automatically applied at first boot.

When the switch is rebooted, the CoPP policy that was actively applied to the switch before the reboot
occurred will be applied if it was saved to the startup configuration with the copy running-config
startup-config command.

For GRE tunneled traffic, CoPP policies match on the payload.

CoPP policies do not regulate traffic received from the Out-of-Band-Management (OOBM) Ethernet port.

Configuring CoPP

Procedure

1. Configure the default CoPP policy, edit an existing policy, or create a policy with the command

copp-policy.

2. Add, edit, or remove classes in the policy with the command class.

3.

If the policy is not the active policy on the switch, apply it with the command apply copp-policy.
(Changes made to an active policy take effect immediately and do not need to be applied.)

4. Review the CoPP policy configuration settings with the command show copp-policy.

Example

This example creates the following configuration:

AOS-CX 10.10 CoPP Guide | (83xx, 9300, 10000 Switches)

8

n DefinesanewpolicynamedMy_CoppPolicy.
n Addstwoclassestothepolicy.
Activatesthepolicy.
n
n Displayspolicyconfigurationsettings.
| switch(config)#      | copp-policy |       | My_CoppPolicy |          |        |      |          |     |
| -------------------- | ----------- | ----- | ------------- | -------- | ------ | ---- | -------- | --- |
| switch(config-copp)# |             | class | igmp          | priority | 6 rate | 5000 | burst 60 |     |
switch(config-copp)# class lacp priority 2 rate 2000 burst 1000
| switch(config-copp)# |             | exit        |               |               |           |      |          |          |
| -------------------- | ----------- | ----------- | ------------- | ------------- | --------- | ---- | -------- | -------- |
| switch(config)#      | apply       | copp-policy |               | My_CoppPolicy |           |      |          |          |
| switch(config)#      | exit        |             |               |               |           |      |          |          |
| switch# show         | copp-policy |             | My_CoppPolicy |               |           |      |          |          |
| class                |             | drop        | priority      | rate          | pps burst | pkts | hardware | rate pps |
--------------------- ---- -------- -------- ---------- -----------------
| igmp    |     |     | 6   | 5000 | 60   |     | 5000 |     |
| ------- | --- | --- | --- | ---- | ---- | --- | ---- | --- |
| lacp    |     |     | 2   | 2000 | 1000 |     | 2000 |     |
| default |     |     | 1   | 6000 | 70   |     | 6000 |     |
CoPP commands
| Classes of | traffic |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |
| ---------- | ------- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
Thedifferentclassesoftrafficthatcanbeindividuallyconfiguredare:
n acl-logging:AccessControlListloggingpackets.
arp-broadcast:AddressResolutionProtocolpacketswithabroadcastdestinationMACaddress.
n
n arp-unicast:AddressResolutionProtocolpacketswithaswitchsystemdestinationMACaddress.
n bfd:BidirectionalForwardingDetection(BFD)packetswithadestinationIPaddressownedbythe
switch.
n bgp-ipv4:BorderGatewayProtocolpacketswithadestinationIPv4addressownedbytheswitch.
n bgp-ipv6:BorderGatewayProtocolpacketswithadestinationIPv6addressownedbytheswitch.
n dhcp-ipv4:DynamicHostConfigurationProtocolpacketswithadestinationIPv4address.
n dhcp-ipv6:DynamicHostConfigurationProtocolpacketswithadestinationIPv6address.
n erps:EthernetRingProtectionSwitchingcontrolpacketswiththedestinationMACaddress
01:19:a7:00:00:XX,whereXXcanbeanyvalue.
n hypertext:HypertextTransferProtocol(HTTP)orHypertextTransferProtocolSecure(HTTPS)
packets.
n icmp-broadcast-ipv4:InternetControlMessageProtocolpacketswithabroadcastormulticast
destinationIPv4address.
n icmp-multicast-ipv6:InternetControlMessageProtocolpacketswithawell-knownmulticast
destinationIPv6address.
n icmp-unicast-ipv4:InternetControlMessageProtocolpacketswithadestinationIPv4address
ownedbytheswitch.
icmp-unicast-ipv6:InternetControlMessageProtocolpacketswithadestinationIPv6address
n
ownedbytheswitch.
n igmp:InternetGroupManagementProtocolpackets.
ControlPlanePolicing(CoPP)|9

n ip-exceptions: Routable packets that would exceed the MTU for the egress interface, packets that
trigger ICMP redirects, and packets with TTL/hop_limit=1 that are discarded when routing through
the switch.

n ipsec: Internet Protocol Security IPv4 or IPv6, unicast or configured multicast. All IPsec traffic

received by the CPU will be regulated by the ipsec class regardless of the encapsulated protocol.

n ipv4-options: Unicast IPv4 packets including option headers.

n ipv6-options: Unicast IPv6 packets including option headers.

n lacp: Link Aggregation Control Protocol packets with the destination MAC address 01:80:c2:00:00:02.

n lldp: Link Layer Discovery Protocol packets with the destination MAC address 01:80:c2:00:00:0e.

n loop-protect: Loop Protection packets with the destination MAC address 09:00:09:09:13:a6.

n mirror-to-cpu: Packets from mirroring session configured to deliver to the console.

n mld: Multicast Listener Discovery packets of type V1 or V2 with an IPv6 address of FF00::/8, FF02::16

or FF02::2.

n mvrp: Multiple VLAN Registration Protocol packets with the destination MAC address

01:80:c2:00:00:20 or 01:80:c2:00:00:21.

n ntp: Network Time Protocol packets with a destination IP address owned by the switch.

n ospf-multicast-ipv4: Open Shortest Path First packets with the multicast destination IPv4 address

224.0.0.5 or 224.0.0.6. The 8325 switch has VxLAN packets with VNI 0.

n ospf-multicast-ipv6: Open Shortest Path First packets with the multicast destination IPv6 address

FF02::5 or FF02::6.

n ospf-unicast-ipv4: Open Shortest Path First packets with a destination IPv4 address owned by the

switch.

n ospf-unicast-ipv6: Open Shortest Path First packets with a destination IPv6 address owned by the

switch.

n pim: Protocol Independent Multicast packets with the destination IPv4 address 224.0.0.13 or IPv6
address FF02::D, or Multicast Source Discovery Protocol (MSDP) packets, or with a destination IP
address owned by the switch. Also includes PIM packets received from a 6in6 tunnel.

n sflow: Packet headers sampled by the switch that will be sent to the sFlow collector.

n ssh: Secure Shell (SSH) or Secure File Transfer Protocol (SFTP) packets. Dropping ssh packets will

result in the connection to the CLI being lost.

n stp: Spanning Tree Protocol (STP) packets with the destination MAC address 01:80:c2:00:00:00 or Per-

VLAN Spanning Tree (PVST) packets with the destination MAC address 01:00:0c:cc:cc:cd.

n telnet: Secure Telnet packets.

n udld: Unidirectional Link Detection packets with the destination MAC address 01:00:0c:cc:cc:cc or

00:e0:52:00:00:00, or Cisco Discovery Protocol packets with the destination MAC address
01:00:0c:cc:cc:cc.

n unknown-multicast: Packets with an unknown multicast destination IP address.

n unresolved-ip-unicast: Packets to be software forwarded by the management processor.

n vrrp-ipv4: Virtual Router Redundancy Protocol packets with the destination IPv4 address 224.0.0.18

or VSX-Keepalive.

n vrrp-ipv6: Virtual Router Redundancy Protocol packets with the destination IPv6 address FF02::12.

To regulate any other traffic destined for the CPU, every CoPP policy has a class named default that can
also be configured to regulate other traffic to the CPU or prevent other traffic from being delivered.

All IPsec traffic received by the CPU will be regulated by the ipsec class regardless of the encapsulated protocol.

AOS-CX 10.10 CoPP Guide | (83xx, 9300, 10000 Switches)

10

apply copp-policy
| apply copp-policy    | { <NAME> | | default | }   |
| -------------------- | -------- | --------- | --- |
| no apply copp-policy | <NAME>   |           |     |
Description
AppliesaCoPPpolicytotheswitch,replacingthepolicythatisineffect.Theremaybeabrief
interruptionintrafficflowtothemanagementprocessorwhiletheswitchimplementsthechange.
Entertheno <NAME>commandwiththenameofaCoPPpolicytounapplyaCoPP
apply copp-policy
policyandapplythedefaultCoPPpolicy.Thiswillonlytakeeffectifthespecifiedpolicyisactively
applied.SincetheremustalwaysbeaCoPPpolicyapplied,thiscommandeffectivelyattemptstoreplace
theappliedCoPPpolicywiththedefaultCoPPpolicy.ThedefaultCoPPpolicycannotbeunappliedusing
thiscommand.
| Parameter |     |     | Description                                     |
| --------- | --- | --- | ----------------------------------------------- |
| <NAME>    |     |     | Specifiesthenameofthepolicytoapply.Length:1to64 |
characters.
| default |     |     | Appliesthedefaultpolicy. |
| ------- | --- | --- | ------------------------ |
Usage
Ifthenewpolicycannotbeapplied(forexample,duetoalackofhardwareresources),theprevious
policyremainsineffect.Usetheshow copp-policycommandtodeterminewhichpolicyisineffect.
Examples
ApplyingapolicynamedMy_CoppPolicy:
| switch(config)# | apply | copp-policy | My_CoppPolicy |
| --------------- | ----- | ----------- | ------------- |
Applyingthedefaultpolicy:
| switch(config)# | apply | copp-policy | default |
| --------------- | ----- | ----------- | ------- |
UnapplyingapolicynamedMy_CoppPolicy:
| switch(config)#     | no apply | copp-policy | My_CoppPolicy |
| ------------------- | -------- | ----------- | ------------- |
| Command History     |          |             |               |
| Release             |          |             | Modification  |
| 10.07orearlier      |          |             | --            |
| Command Information |          |             |               |
ControlPlanePolicing(CoPP)|11

Platforms

Command context

Authority

All platforms

config

Administrators or local user group members with execution
rights for this command.

class
class <CLASS> {drop | priority <PRIORITY> rate <RATE> [burst <BURST>]}
no class <CLASS> {drop | priority <PRIORITY> rate <RATE> [burst <BURST>]}

Description

Adds a class to a CoPP policy. If the class exists, the existing class is modified. Changes made to an active
(applied) policy take effect immediately.

When adding or modifying a class in an active policy, CoPP immediately activates the change on the
switch. In cases where insufficient hardware resources exist to support a class or its action, CoPP fails to
activate the changed class on the switch. When this failure occurs, the active configuration on the switch
will be out of sync with its definition. To diagnose and remedy this situation:

n Use the show copp-policy command to determine which classes are out of sync between the active

policy and its definition.

n Use the reset copp-policy command to synchronize the active policy with its definition. This
synchronization changes the classes in the definition to match the classes in the active policy.

The no form of this command removes a class from a CoPP policy. Traffic for the removed class that is
destined for the processor will be included in the default class. To stop a class of traffic from reaching
the processor, set the class action to drop.

Parameter

<CLASS>

drop

Description

Specifies the class to add or edit.

Drop packets matching the selected class.

priority <PRIORITY>

Specifies the priority for packets matching the selected class.
Range: 0 to 7.

rate <RATE>

burst <BURST>

Examples

Specifies the maximum rate, in packets per second (pps), for
packets matching the selected class. Range: 1 to 99999.

Specifies the maximum burst size, in packets, for packets
matching the selected class. Range: 1 to 9999.

Adding a class to handle LACP traffic with priority of 2 and rate of 2000:

switch(config-copp)# class lacp priority 2 rate 2000

Modifying the class to drop LLDP packets:

switch(config-copp)# class lldp drop

AOS-CX 10.10 CoPP Guide | (83xx, 9300, 10000 Switches)

12

RemovingtheclassthathandlesLLDPpackets.LLDPtrafficdestinedtotheprocessorwillbeincludedin
thedefaultclass.
| switch(config-copp)# |     |             | no  | class   | lldp         |     |     |     |
| -------------------- | --- | ----------- | --- | ------- | ------------ | --- | --- | --- |
| Command              |     | History     |     |         |              |     |     |     |
| Release              |     |             |     |         | Modification |     |     |     |
| 10.07orearlier       |     |             |     |         | --           |     |     |     |
| Command              |     | Information |     |         |              |     |     |     |
| Platforms            |     | Command     |     | context | Authority    |     |     |     |
Allplatforms config-copp Administratorsorlocalusergroupmemberswithexecution
rightsforthiscommand.
| clear | copp-policy |     | statistics |     |     |     |     |     |
| ----- | ----------- | --- | ---------- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| clear | copp-policy |     | statistics |     |     |     |     |     |
Description
ResetsstatisticsforallCoPPclassestozero.
Examples
Displayingandthenresettingstatisticsforallclassesintheactivepolicy:
| switch#    |     | show copp-policy |             | statistics |            |     |     |     |
| ---------- | --- | ---------------- | ----------- | ---------- | ---------- | --- | --- | --- |
| Statistics |     | for              | CoPP policy |            | 'default': |     |     |     |
Totals:
|            | bytes                   | passed            | :           | 64000      |            | bytes dropped            | : 96000 |     |
| ---------- | ----------------------- | ----------------- | ----------- | ---------- | ---------- | ------------------------ | ------- | --- |
|            | packets                 | passed            | :           | 1000       |            | packets dropped          | : 1500  |     |
|            | avg_packet_size_passed: |                   |             |            | 64         | avg_packet_size_dropped: |         | 64  |
| Class:     | default                 |                   |             |            |            |                          |         |     |
|            | bytes                   | passed            | :           | 25600      |            | bytes dropped            | : 38400 |     |
|            | packets                 | passed            | :           | 400        |            | packets dropped          | : 600   |     |
|            | avg_packet_size_passed: |                   |             |            | 64         | avg_packet_size_dropped: |         | 64  |
| Class:     | acl-logging             |                   |             |            |            |                          |         |     |
|            | bytes                   | passed            | :           | 6400       |            | bytes dropped            | : 6400  |     |
|            | packets                 | passed            | :           | 100        |            | packets dropped          | : 100   |     |
|            | avg_packet_size_passed: |                   |             |            | 64         | avg_packet_size_dropped: |         | 64  |
| Class:     | arp-broadcast           |                   |             |            |            |                          |         |     |
|            | bytes                   | passed            | :           | 32000      |            | bytes dropped            | : 51200 |     |
|            | packets                 | passed            | :           | 500        |            | packets dropped          | : 800   |     |
|            | avg_packet_size_passed: |                   |             |            | 64         | avg_packet_size_dropped: |         | 64  |
|            |                         | <--OUTPUT         | OMITTED     | FOR        | BREVITY--> |                          |         |     |
| switch#    |                         | clear copp-policy |             | statistics |            |                          |         |     |
| switch#    |                         | show copp-policy  |             | statistics |            |                          |         |     |
| Statistics |                         | for               | CoPP policy |            | 'default': |                          |         |     |
Totals:
|        | bytes                   | passed | :   | 0   |     | bytes dropped            | : 0 |     |
| ------ | ----------------------- | ------ | --- | --- | --- | ------------------------ | --- | --- |
|        | packets                 | passed | :   | 0   |     | packets dropped          | : 0 |     |
|        | avg_packet_size_passed: |        |     |     | 0   | avg_packet_size_dropped: |     | 0   |
| Class: | default                 |        |     |     |     |                          |     |     |
ControlPlanePolicing(CoPP)|13

|                | bytes                   | passed  | : 0     |                | bytes dropped            | : 0 |     |
| -------------- | ----------------------- | ------- | ------- | -------------- | ------------------------ | --- | --- |
|                | packets                 | passed  | : 0     |                | packets dropped          | : 0 |     |
|                | avg_packet_size_passed: |         |         | 0              | avg_packet_size_dropped: |     | 0   |
| Class:         | acl-logging             |         |         |                |                          |     |     |
|                | bytes                   | passed  | : 0     |                | bytes dropped            | : 0 |     |
|                | packets                 | passed  | : 0     |                | packets dropped          | : 0 |     |
|                | avg_packet_size_passed: |         |         | 0              | avg_packet_size_dropped: |     | 0   |
| Class:         | arp-broadcast           |         |         |                |                          |     |     |
|                | bytes                   | passed  | : 0     |                | bytes dropped            | : 0 |     |
|                | packets                 | passed  | : 0     |                | packets dropped          | : 0 |     |
|                | avg_packet_size_passed: |         |         | 0              | avg_packet_size_dropped: |     | 0   |
|                | <--OUTPUT               |         | OMITTED | FOR BREVITY--> |                          |     |     |
| Command        | History                 |         |         |                |                          |     |     |
| Release        |                         |         |         | Modification   |                          |     |     |
| 10.07orearlier |                         |         |         | --             |                          |     |     |
| Command        | Information             |         |         |                |                          |     |     |
| Platforms      |                         | Command | context | Authority      |                          |     |     |
Allplatforms Operator(>)orManager OperatorsorAdministratorsorlocalusergroupmemberswith
executionrightsforthiscommand.Operatorscanexecutethis
(#)
commandfromtheoperatorcontext(>)only.
copp-policy
| copp-policy    |     | {<NAME> | | default | [revert]} |     |     |     |
| -------------- | --- | ------- | --------- | --------- | --- | --- | --- |
| no copp-policy |     | <NAME>  |           |           |     |     |     |
Description
CreatesaCoPPpolicyandswitchestotheconfig-coppcontextforthepolicy.Or,ifthespecifiedpolicy
exists,switchestotheconfig-coppcontextforthepolicy.Apredefinedpolicy,nameddefault,contains
factorydefaultclassesandisappliedtotheswitchatfirststartup.Thispolicycannotbedeleted,butits
configurationcanbechanged.
ThenoformofthiscommandremovesaCoPPpolicy.Ifapolicyisactive(applied),itcannotberemoved
.Itmustbereplacedwithanotherpolicybeforeitcanberemoved.
| Parameter |     |     |     | Description                                         |     |     |     |
| --------- | --- | --- | --- | --------------------------------------------------- | --- | --- | --- |
| <NAME>    |     |     |     | Specifiesthenameofthepolicytoaddoredit.Length:1to64 |     |     |     |
characters.Thenamemustnotbeasubstringofanyofthe
followingreservedwords:default,factory-default,commands,
configuration,orstatistics.
default
SpecifiesthedefaultCoPPpolicy.Usethisdefaultpolicyto
configurethedefaultpolicy.
| revert |     |     |     | SetsthedefaultCoPPpolicytoitsfactorysettings. |     |     |     |
| ------ | --- | --- | --- | --------------------------------------------- | --- | --- | --- |
Examples
CreatingapolicynamedMy_CoppPolicy:
AOS-CX10.10CoPPGuide|(83xx,9300,10000Switches) 14

| switch(config)# |     | copp-policy |     | My_CoppPolicy |     |     |
| --------------- | --- | ----------- | --- | ------------- | --- | --- |
switch(config-copp)#
RemovingapolicynamedMy_CoppPolicy:
| switch(config)# |     | no  | copp-policy |     | My_CoppPolicy |     |
| --------------- | --- | --- | ----------- | --- | ------------- | --- |
Settingthedefaultpolicytoitsfactorysettings:
| switch(config)# |     | copp-policy |     | default | revert |     |
| --------------- | --- | ----------- | --- | ------- | ------ | --- |
UnapplyingthepolicynamedMy_CoppPolicy:
| switch(config)# |             | no  | apply   | copp-policy | My_CoppPolicy |     |
| --------------- | ----------- | --- | ------- | ----------- | ------------- | --- |
| Command         | History     |     |         |             |               |     |
| Release         |             |     |         |             | Modification  |     |
| 10.07orearlier  |             |     |         |             | --            |     |
| Command         | Information |     |         |             |               |     |
| Platforms       | Command     |     | context |             | Authority     |     |
Allplatforms config Administratorsorlocalusergroupmemberswithexecution
rightsforthiscommand.
default-class
| default-class | priority |     | <PRIORITY> |     | rate <RATE> | [burst <BURST>] |
| ------------- | -------- | --- | ---------- | --- | ----------- | --------------- |
Description
ConfiguresthedefaultclassthatisautomaticallydefinedforallCoPPpolicies.Thedefaultclasscannot
beremoved,butitsconfigurationcanbechanged.Thedefaultclassisappliedtotrafficthatdoesnot
matchanyotherclassdefinedforapolicy.
| Parameter |     |     |     |     | Description |     |
| --------- | --- | --- | --- | --- | ----------- | --- |
priority <PRIORITY> Specifiesthepriorityforpacketsmatchingtheselectedclass.
Range:0to7.
rate <RATE> Specifiesthemaximumrate,inpacketspersecond(pps),for
packetsmatchingtheselectedclass.Range:1to99999.
burst <BURST> Specifiesthemaximumburstsize,inpackets,forpackets
matchingtheselectedclass.Range:1to9999.
Example
Settingthedefaultclasstoapriorityof2andrateof2000:
ControlPlanePolicing(CoPP)|15

| switch(config-copp)# |         | default-class |     | priority     |     | 2 rate | 2000 |     |     |
| -------------------- | ------- | ------------- | --- | ------------ | --- | ------ | ---- | --- | --- |
| Command History      |         |               |     |              |     |        |      |     |     |
| Release              |         |               |     | Modification |     |        |      |     |     |
| 10.07orearlier       |         |               |     | --           |     |        |      |     |     |
| Command Information  |         |               |     |              |     |        |      |     |     |
| Platforms            | Command | context       |     | Authority    |     |        |      |     |     |
Allplatforms config-copp Administratorsorlocalusergroupmemberswithexecution
rightsforthiscommand.
reset copp-policy
| reset copp-policy | { <NAME> |     | | default | }   |     |     |     |     |     |
| ----------------- | -------- | --- | --------- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
Description
ResetsanactiveCoPPpolicytomatchthesettingsthatarecurrentlyineffectfortheactivepolicyonthe
switch.Changesmadetotheactivepolicythatcouldnotbeactivatedareremovedfromtheactive
policy.WhentheswitchfailstoaddormodifyaclassinanactiveCoPPpolicy,itispossibletheactive
policysettingsontheswitchmaybeoutofsyncwiththosedefinedinthepolicy.
| Parameter |     |     |     | Description                                     |     |     |     |     |     |
| --------- | --- | --- | --- | ----------------------------------------------- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| <NAME>    |     |     |     | Specifiesthenameofthepolicytoreset.Length:1to64 |     |     |     |     |     |
characters.
| default |     |     |     | Resetsthedefaultpolicytomatchitsactivesettings. |     |     |     |     |     |
| ------- | --- | --- | --- | ----------------------------------------------- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
Examples
ResettingapolicynamedMy_CoppPolicy:
| switch# show | copp-policy |      | My_CoppPolicy |      |     |       |      |          |          |
| ------------ | ----------- | ---- | ------------- | ---- | --- | ----- | ---- | -------- | -------- |
| class        |             | drop | priority      | rate | pps | burst | pkts | hardware | rate pps |
--------------------- ---- -------- -------- ---------- -----------------
| igmp                 |             |       | 6                | 5000     |               | 60    |       | 5000     |          |
| -------------------- | ----------- | ----- | ---------------- | -------- | ------------- | ----- | ----- | -------- | -------- |
| lacp                 |             |       | 2                | 2000     |               | 1000  |       | 2000     |          |
| default              |             |       | 1                | 6000     |               | 70    |       | 6000     |          |
| switch# config       | terminal    |       |                  |          |               |       |       |          |          |
| switch(config)#      | copp-policy |       | My_CoppPolicy    |          |               |       |       |          |          |
| switch(config-copp)# |             | class | stp              | priority | 4 rate        | 4000  | burst | 60       |          |
| switch(config-copp)# |             | do    | show copp-policy |          | My_CoppPolicy |       |       |          |          |
| class                |             | drop  | priority         | rate     | pps           | burst | pkts  | hardware | rate pps |
--------------------- ---- -------- -------- ---------- -----------------
| igmp    |     |     | 6   | 5000 |     | 60   |     | 5000 |     |
| ------- | --- | --- | --- | ---- | --- | ---- | --- | ---- | --- |
| lacp    |     |     | 2   | 2000 |     | 1000 |     | 2000 |     |
| default |     |     | 1   | 6000 |     | 70   |     | 6000 |     |
% Warning: user-specified classes in CoPP policy My_CoppPolicy do not match
| active configuration. |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |
| --------------------- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
switch(config-copp)# do show copp-policy My_CoppPolicy configuration
AOS-CX10.10CoPPGuide|(83xx,9300,10000Switches) 16

| class |     | drop priority | rate pps | burst pkts | applied |     |
| ----- | --- | ------------- | -------- | ---------- | ------- | --- |
--------------------- ---- -------- -------- ---------- -------
| igmp    |     | 6   | 5000 | 60   | yes |     |
| ------- | --- | --- | ---- | ---- | --- | --- |
| lacp    |     | 2   | 2000 | 1000 | yes |     |
| stp     |     | 4   | 4000 | 60   | no  |     |
| default |     | 1   | 6000 | 70   | yes |     |
% Warning: user-specified classes in CoPP policy My_CoppPolicy do not match
| active configuration. |       |                  |               |            |          |          |
| --------------------- | ----- | ---------------- | ------------- | ---------- | -------- | -------- |
| switch(config-copp)#  |       | exit             |               |            |          |          |
| switch(config)#       | reset | copp-policy      | My_CoppPolicy |            |          |          |
| switch(config)#       | do    | show copp-policy | My_CoppPolicy |            |          |          |
| class                 |       | drop priority    | rate pps      | burst pkts | hardware | rate pps |
--------------------- ---- -------- -------- ---------- -----------------
| igmp    |     | 6   | 5000 | 60   | 5000 |     |
| ------- | --- | --- | ---- | ---- | ---- | --- |
| lacp    |     | 2   | 2000 | 1000 | 2000 |     |
| default |     | 1   | 6000 | 70   | 6000 |     |
Resettingthedefaultpolicy:
| switch(config)#     | reset   | copp-policy | default      |     |     |     |
| ------------------- | ------- | ----------- | ------------ | --- | --- | --- |
| Command History     |         |             |              |     |     |     |
| Release             |         |             | Modification |     |     |     |
| 10.07orearlier      |         |             | --           |     |     |     |
| Command Information |         |             |              |     |     |     |
| Platforms           | Command | context     | Authority    |     |     |     |
Allplatforms config Administratorsorlocalusergroupmemberswithexecution
rightsforthiscommand.
show copp-policy
show copp-policy [<NAME> | default] [commands] [configuration] [vsx-peer]
Description
ShowsCoPPpolicysettingsforaspecificCoPPpolicy.Whenenteredwithoutspecifyingeitheranameor
thedefaultparameter,showsalltheCoPPpolicysettingsthatareactiveontheswitchandhave
successfullybeenprogrammedintothehardware.
Awarningisdisplayedif:
n Theactiveanduser-specifiedapplicationsofapolicydonotmatch.
n Theactiveanduser-specifiedconfigurationsofapolicydonotmatch.
| Parameter |     |     | Description |     |     |     |
| --------- | --- | --- | ----------- | --- | --- | --- |
<NAME>
Specifiesthenameofthepolicyforwhichtodisplaysettings.
Length:1to64characters.
ControlPlanePolicing(CoPP)|17

| Parameter |     |     |     |     |     | Description                              |     |     |     |     |
| --------- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | ---------------------------------------- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| default   |     |     |     |     |     | DisplaysCoPPsettingsforthedefaultpolicy. |     |     |     |     |
commands
DisplaysoutputasCLIcommands.
configuration Displaysuser-specifiedCoPPsettingsandnottheactivesettings.
vsx-peer
ShowstheoutputfromtheVSXpeerswitch.Iftheswitchesdonot
havetheVSXconfigurationortheISLisdown,theoutputfromthe
VSXpeerswitchisnotdisplayed.Thisparameterisavailableon
switchesthatsupportVSX.
Example
DisplayingtheCoPPpoliciesdefinedintheconfigurationandtheactiveapplication:
| switch# | show             | copp-policy |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |
| ------- | ---------------- | ----------- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| applied | copp_policy_name |             |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |
| ------- | ---------------- |             |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |
My_CoppPolicy
| applied | default |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |
| ------- | ------- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
switch#
DisplayingtheactiveconfigurationofallCoPPpoliciesasCLIcommands:
| switch#       | show        | copp-policy   |          | commands |                |            |            |      |     |     |
| ------------- | ----------- | ------------- | -------- | -------- | -------------- | ---------- | ---------- | ---- | --- | --- |
| copp-policy   |             | My_CoppPolicy |          |          |                |            |            |      |     |     |
| class         |             | igmp          | priority | 6        | rate 5000      | burst      | 60         |      |     |     |
| class         |             | lacp          | priority | 2        | rate 2000      | burst      | 1000       |      |     |     |
| default-class |             |               | priority |          | 1 rate         | 6000 burst | 70         |      |     |     |
| copp-policy   |             | default       |          |          |                |            |            |      |     |     |
| class         |             | acl-logging   |          | priority | 0              | rate 50    | burst 50   |      |     |     |
| class         |             | arp-broadcast |          | priority |                | 3 rate     | 7000 burst | 7000 |     |     |
| class         |             | arp-unicast   |          | priority | 4              | rate 2500  | burst      | 2500 |     |     |
| class         |             | bfd priority  |          | 7 rate   | 1000           | burst      | 1000       |      |     |     |
|               | <--OUTPUT   |               | OMITTED  |          | FOR BREVITY--> |            |            |      |     |     |
| default-class |             |               | priority |          | 1 rate         | 1000 burst | 500        |      |     |     |
| apply         | copp-policy |               | default  |          |                |            |            |      |     |     |
switch#
Displayingthedefaultpolicy:
| switch# | show | copp-policy |     | default |          |      |           |      |          |          |
| ------- | ---- | ----------- | --- | ------- | -------- | ---- | --------- | ---- | -------- | -------- |
| class   |      |             |     | drop    | priority | rate | pps burst | pkts | hardware | rate pps |
--------------------- ---- -------- -------- ---------- -----------------
| acl-logging   |         |         |     |     | 0          | 50   | 50   |     | 50   |     |
| ------------- | ------- | ------- | --- | --- | ---------- | ---- | ---- | --- | ---- | --- |
| arp-broadcast |         |         |     |     | 3          | 7000 | 7000 |     | 7000 |     |
| arp-unicast   |         |         |     |     | 4          | 2500 | 2500 |     | 2500 |     |
| bfd           |         |         |     |     | 7          | 1000 | 1000 |     | 1000 |     |
| <--OUTPUT     |         | OMITTED |     | FOR | BREVITY--> |      |      |     |      |     |
| default       |         |         |     |     | 1          | 1000 | 500  |     | 1000 |     |
| Command       | History |         |     |     |            |      |      |     |      |     |
AOS-CX10.10CoPPGuide|(83xx,9300,10000Switches) 18

| Release        |             |         |         |     | Modification |     |     |     |     |
| -------------- | ----------- | ------- | ------- | --- | ------------ | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| 10.07orearlier |             |         |         |     | --           |     |     |     |     |
| Command        | Information |         |         |     |              |     |     |     |     |
| Platforms      |             | Command | context |     | Authority    |     |     |     |     |
Allplatforms Operator(>)orManager OperatorsorAdministratorsorlocalusergroupmemberswith
|     |     | (#) |     |     | executionrightsforthiscommand.Operatorscanexecutethis |     |     |     |     |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | ----------------------------------------------------- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
commandfromtheoperatorcontext(>)only.
| show | copp-policy |                 | factory-default |            |     |            |     |     |     |
| ---- | ----------- | --------------- | --------------- | ---------- | --- | ---------- | --- | --- | --- |
| show | copp-policy | factory-default |                 | [commands] |     | [vsx-peer] |     |     |     |
Description
Displaytheconfigurationforthefactory-defaultCoPPpolicy.
| Parameter |     |     |     |     | Description                  |     |     |     |     |
| --------- | --- | --- | --- | --- | ---------------------------- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| commands  |     |     |     |     | DisplaysoutputasCLIcommands. |     |     |     |     |
vsx-peer ShowstheoutputfromtheVSXpeerswitch.Iftheswitchesdonot
havetheVSXconfigurationortheISLisdown,theoutputfromthe
VSXpeerswitchisnotdisplayed.Thisparameterisavailableon
switchesthatsupportVSX.
Example
Displayingthefactory-defaultpolicy:
| switch#               | show      | copp-policy |      | factory-default |          |            |      |     |     |
| --------------------- | --------- | ----------- | ---- | --------------- | -------- | ---------- | ---- | --- | --- |
| class                 |           |             | drop | priority        | rate     | pps burst  | pkts |     |     |
| --------------------- |           |             | ---- | --------        | -------- | ---------- |      |     |     |
| acl-logging           |           |             |      | 0               | 50       | 50         |      |     |     |
| arp-broadcast         |           |             |      | 3               | 7000     | 7000       |      |     |     |
| arp-unicast           |           |             |      | 4               | 2500     | 2500       |      |     |     |
| bfd                   |           |             |      | 7               | 1000     | 1000       |      |     |     |
|                       | <--OUTPUT | OMITTED     | FOR  | BREVITY-->      |          |            |      |     |     |
| default               |           |             |      | 1               | 1000     | 500        |      |     |     |
DisplayingtheactiveconfigurationofMy_CoppPolicy(My_CoppPolicyisapplied):
| switch#         | config | terminal |             |             |               |           |      |          |          |
| --------------- | ------ | -------- | ----------- | ----------- | ------------- | --------- | ---- | -------- | -------- |
| switch(config)# |        | apply    | copp-policy |             | My_CoppPolicy |           |      |          |          |
| switch(config)# |        | do       | show        | copp-policy | My_CoppPolicy |           |      |          |          |
| class           |        |          | drop        | priority    | rate          | pps burst | pkts | hardware | rate pps |
--------------------- ---- -------- -------- ---------- -----------------
| igmp    |     |     |     | 6   | 5000 | 60   |     | 5000 |     |
| ------- | --- | --- | --- | --- | ---- | ---- | --- | ---- | --- |
| lacp    |     |     |     | 2   | 2000 | 1000 |     | 2000 |     |
| default |     |     |     | 1   | 6000 | 70   |     | 6000 |     |
DisplayingtheactiveconfigurationofMy_CoppPolicyasCLIcommands:
ControlPlanePolicing(CoPP)|19

| switch#     | show          | copp-policy   |               | My_CoppPolicy |      | commands |      |     |     |
| ----------- | ------------- | ------------- | ------------- | ------------- | ---- | -------- | ---- | --- | --- |
| copp-policy |               | My_CoppPolicy |               |               |      |          |      |     |     |
|             | class         | igmp          | priority      | 6 rate        | 5000 | burst    | 60   |     |     |
|             | class         | lacp          | priority      | 2 rate        | 2000 | burst    | 1000 |     |     |
|             | default-class |               | priority      | 1 rate        | 6000 | burst    | 70   |     |     |
| apply       | copp-policy   |               | My_CoppPolicy |               |      |          |      |     |     |
Displayingtheuser-specifiedconfigurationofMy_CoppPolicy:
| switch# | show | copp-policy |     | My_CoppPolicy |     | configuration |       |      |         |
| ------- | ---- | ----------- | --- | ------------- | --- | ------------- | ----- | ---- | ------- |
| class   |      |             |     | drop priority |     | rate pps      | burst | pkts | applied |
--------------------- ---- -------- -------- ---------- -------
| igmp    |     |     |     | 6   |     | 5000 | 60   |     | yes |
| ------- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | ---- | ---- | --- | --- |
| lacp    |     |     |     | 2   |     | 2000 | 1000 |     | yes |
| default |     |     |     | 1   |     | 6000 | 70   |     | yes |
Displayingtheuser-specifiedconfigurationofMy_CoppPolicyasCLIcommands:
| switch#        | show          | copp-policy   |               | My_CoppPolicy |              | commands |      | configuration |     |
| -------------- | ------------- | ------------- | ------------- | ------------- | ------------ | -------- | ---- | ------------- | --- |
| copp-policy    |               | My_CoppPolicy |               |               |              |          |      |               |     |
|                | class         | igmp          | priority      | 6 rate        | 5000         | burst    | 60   |               |     |
|                | class         | lacp          | priority      | 2 rate        | 2000         | burst    | 1000 |               |     |
|                | default-class |               | priority      | 1 rate        | 6000         | burst    | 70   |               |     |
| apply          | copp-policy   |               | My_CoppPolicy |               |              |          |      |               |     |
| Command        | History       |               |               |               |              |          |      |               |     |
| Release        |               |               |               |               | Modification |          |      |               |     |
| 10.07orearlier |               |               |               |               | --           |          |      |               |     |
| Command        | Information   |               |               |               |              |          |      |               |     |
| Platforms      |               | Command       |               | context       | Authority    |          |      |               |     |
Allplatforms Operator(>)orManager OperatorsorAdministratorsorlocalusergroupmemberswith
executionrightsforthiscommand.Operatorscanexecutethis
(#)
commandfromtheoperatorcontext(>)only.
| show | copp-policy |     | statistics |     |     |     |     |     |     |
| ---- | ----------- | --- | ---------- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
show copp-policy statistics [class <CLASS> | default-class | non-zero] [vsx-peer]
Description
Displaysstatisticsforallclasses,asingleclass,orallclasseswithnon-zerostatisticsintheactiveCoPP
policy.
| Parameter |     |     |     |     | Description                                   |     |     |     |     |
| --------- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --------------------------------------------- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| <CLASS>   |     |     |     |     | Specifiestheclassforwhichtodisplaystatistics. |     |     |     |     |
AOS-CX10.10CoPPGuide|(83xx,9300,10000Switches) 20

| Parameter     |     |     |     |     | Description                           |     |     |     |
| ------------- | --- | --- | --- | --- | ------------------------------------- | --- | --- | --- |
| default-class |     |     |     |     | Displaysstatisticsforthedefaultclass. |     |     |     |
non-zero Displaysstatisticsforallclasseswithnon-zerostatistics.
vsx-peer ShowstheoutputfromtheVSXpeerswitch.Iftheswitchesdonot
havetheVSXconfigurationortheISLisdown,theoutputfromthe
VSXpeerswitchisnotdisplayed.Thisparameterisavailableon
switchesthatsupportVSX.
Usage
Ifasingleclassisspecified,thepriority,rate,andburstsizethathasbeenprogrammedinhardwarefor
thatclasswillbeshown.Thiscommandwillfailwithanalertiftheuserspecifiesaclassthatisnot
configuredfortheactivelyappliedCoPPpolicy.
Examples
ApplyingthedefaultCoPPpolicyanddisplayingstatisticsforallclassesintheactivelyappliedpolicy:
Theratedisplayedistheactualrateinhardware.
| switch#         | config |             | terminal    |             |            |     |     |     |
| --------------- | ------ | ----------- | ----------- | ----------- | ---------- | --- | --- | --- |
| switch(config)# |        |             | apply       | copp-policy | default    |     |     |     |
| switch(config)# |        |             | exit        |             |            |     |     |     |
| switch#         | show   | copp-policy |             | statistics  |            |     |     |     |
| Statistics      |        | for         | CoPP policy |             | 'default': |     |     |     |
Totals:
| bytes                   |     | passed | :   | 64000 |     | bytes dropped            | : 96000 |     |
| ----------------------- | --- | ------ | --- | ----- | --- | ------------------------ | ------- | --- |
| packets                 |     | passed | :   | 1000  |     | packets dropped          | : 1500  |     |
| avg_packet_size_passed: |     |        |     |       | 64  | avg_packet_size_dropped: |         | 64  |
Class: default
| bytes                   |     | passed | :   | 25600 |     | bytes dropped            | : 38400 |     |
| ----------------------- | --- | ------ | --- | ----- | --- | ------------------------ | ------- | --- |
| packets                 |     | passed | :   | 400   |     | packets dropped          | : 600   |     |
| avg_packet_size_passed: |     |        |     |       | 64  | avg_packet_size_dropped: |         | 64  |
Class: acl-logging
| bytes                   |     | passed | :   | 6400 |     | bytes dropped            | : 6400 |     |
| ----------------------- | --- | ------ | --- | ---- | --- | ------------------------ | ------ | --- |
| packets                 |     | passed | :   | 100  |     | packets dropped          | : 100  |     |
| avg_packet_size_passed: |     |        |     |      | 64  | avg_packet_size_dropped: |        | 64  |
Class: arp-broadcast
| bytes                   |           | passed | :       | 32000 |            | bytes dropped            | : 51200 |     |
| ----------------------- | --------- | ------ | ------- | ----- | ---------- | ------------------------ | ------- | --- |
| packets                 |           | passed | :       | 500   |            | packets dropped          | : 800   |     |
| avg_packet_size_passed: |           |        |         |       | 64         | avg_packet_size_dropped: |         | 64  |
|                         | <--OUTPUT |        | OMITTED | FOR   | BREVITY--> |                          |         |     |
Displayingstatisticsforthedefaultclassintheactivepolicy:
| switch(config)# |     |     | show copp-policy |     | statistics | default-class |     |     |
| --------------- | --- | --- | ---------------- | --- | ---------- | ------------- | --- | --- |
| Statistics      |     | for | CoPP policy      |     | 'default': |               |     |     |
Class: default
| Description: |       | Default |        |       |      |               |         |     |
| ------------ | ----- | ------- | ------ | ----- | ---- | ------------- | ------- | --- |
| priority     |       |         |        | :     | 1    |               |         |     |
| rate         | (pps) |         |        | :     | 1000 |               |         |     |
| burst        |       | size    | (pkts) | :     | 500  |               |         |     |
| bytes        |       | passed  | :      | 25600 |      | bytes dropped | : 38400 |     |
ControlPlanePolicing(CoPP)|21

|     | packets                 | passed | : 400 |     |     | packets dropped          | : 600 |     |
| --- | ----------------------- | ------ | ----- | --- | --- | ------------------------ | ----- | --- |
|     | avg_packet_size_passed: |        |       | 64  |     | avg_packet_size_dropped: |       | 64  |
Displayingstatisticsfortheclassarp-broadcastintheactivelyappliedpolicy:
| switch#        |                         | show copp-policy |            | statistics | class        | arp-broadcast            |         |     |
| -------------- | ----------------------- | ---------------- | ---------- | ---------- | ------------ | ------------------------ | ------- | --- |
| Statistics     |                         | for CoPP         | policy     | 'default': |              |                          |         |     |
| Class:         | arp-broadcast           |                  |            |            |              |                          |         |     |
| Description:   |                         | Address          | Resolution |            | Protocol     | broadcast                |         |     |
|                | priority                |                  |            | : 3        |              |                          |         |     |
|                | rate                    | (pps)            |            | : 7000     |              |                          |         |     |
|                | burst                   | size (pkts)      |            | : 7000     |              |                          |         |     |
|                | bytes                   | passed           | : 32000    |            |              | bytes dropped            | : 51200 |     |
|                | packets                 | passed           | : 500      |            |              | packets dropped          | : 800   |     |
|                | avg_packet_size_passed: |                  |            | 64         |              | avg_packet_size_dropped: |         | 64  |
| Command        |                         | History          |            |            |              |                          |         |     |
| Release        |                         |                  |            |            | Modification |                          |         |     |
| 10.07orearlier |                         |                  |            |            | --           |                          |         |     |
| Command        |                         | Information      |            |            |              |                          |         |     |
| Platforms      |                         | Command          | context    |            | Authority    |                          |         |     |
Allplatforms Operator(>)orManager OperatorsorAdministratorsorlocalusergroupmemberswith
executionrightsforthiscommand.Operatorscanexecutethis
(#)
commandfromtheoperatorcontext(>)only.
| show | tech      | copp |     |     |     |     |     |     |
| ---- | --------- | ---- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| show | tech copp |      |     |     |     |     |     |     |
Description
DisplaystheoutputofallshowcommandssupportedbyCoPP.
Examples
Capturingthecommandoutputintoalocalfile:
| switch# |     | show tech | copp local-file |     |     |     |     |     |
| ------- | --- | --------- | --------------- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
Show Tech output stored in local-file. Please use 'copy show-tech local-file' to
| copy-out |            | this file.     |            |     |     |     |     |     |
| -------- | ---------- | -------------- | ---------- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| switch#  |            | copy show-tech | local-file |     | ?   |     |     |     |
|          | REMOTE_URL | URL            | of syntax  |     |     |     |     |     |
{tftp://|sftp://USER@}{IP|HOST}[:PORT][;blocksize=VAL]/FILE
|         | STORAGE_URL | URL            | of syntax  |     | usb:/file |     |     |     |
| ------- | ----------- | -------------- | ---------- | --- | --------- | --- | --- | --- |
| switch# |             | copy show-tech | local-file |     |           |     |     |     |
| Command |             | History        |            |     |           |     |     |     |
AOS-CX10.10CoPPGuide|(83xx,9300,10000Switches) 22

| Release             |         |         | Modification |
| ------------------- | ------- | ------- | ------------ |
| 10.07orearlier      |         |         | --           |
| Command Information |         |         |              |
| Platforms           | Command | context | Authority    |
Allplatforms Manager(#) Administratorsorlocalusergroupmemberswithexecution
rightsforthiscommand.
ControlPlanePolicing(CoPP)|23

Chapter 3

Support and Other Resources

Support and Other Resources

Accessing HPE Aruba Networking Support

HPE Aruba Networking Support Services

https://www.arubanetworks.com/support-services/

AOS-CX Switch Software Documentation
Portal

https://www.arubanetworks.com/techdocs/AOS-CX/help_
portal/Content/home.htm

HPE Aruba Networking Support Portal

https://networkingsupport.hpe.com/home

North America telephone

1-800-943-4526 (US & Canada Toll-Free Number)

+1-408-754-1200 (Primary - Toll Number)

+1-650-385-6582 (Backup - Toll Number - Use only when all other

numbers are not working)

International telephone

https://www.arubanetworks.com/support-services/contact-
support/

Be sure to collect the following information before contacting Support:

n Technical support registration number (if applicable)

n Product name, model or version, and serial number

n Operating system name and version

n Firmware version

n Error messages

n Product-specific reports and logs

n Add-on products or components

n Third-party products or components

Other useful sites

Other websites that can be used to find information:

HPE Aruba
Networking
Developer Hub

Airheads social
forums and
Knowledge Base

https://developer.arubanetworks.com/hpe-aruba-networking-aoscx/docs/about

https://community.arubanetworks.com/

AOS-CX Software

Videos on new features introduced in this release:

Technical Update

https://www.youtube.com/playlist?list=PLsYGHuNuBZcbWPEjjHuVMqP-Q_UL3CskS

AOS-CX 10.10 CoPP Guide | (83xx, 9300, 10000 Switches)

24

channel on

YouTube.

HPE Aruba
Networking
Hardware
Documentation
and Translations
Portal

HPE Aruba
Networking
software

Software
licensing and
Feature Packs

End-of-Life
information

https://www.arubanetworks.com/techdocs/hardware/DocumentationPortal/Content/home.
htm

https://networkingsupport.hpe.com/downloads

https://licensemanagement.hpe.com/

https://www.arubanetworks.com/support-services/end-of-life/

Accessing Updates

You can access updates from the Aruba Support Portal or the HPE My Networking Website.

Aruba Support Portal

https://asp.arubanetworks.com/downloads

If you are unable to find your product in the Aruba Support Portal, you may need to search My
Networking, where older networking products can be found:

My Networking

https://www.hpe.com/networking/support

To view and update your entitlements, and to link your contracts and warranties with your profile, go to
the Hewlett Packard Enterprise Support Center More Information on Access to Support Materials
page:

https://support.hpe.com/portal/site/hpsc/aae/home/

Access to some updates might require product entitlement when accessed through the Hewlett Packard
Enterprise Support Center. You must have an HP Passport set up with relevant entitlements.

Some software products provide a mechanism for accessing software updates through the product
interface. Review your product documentation to identify the recommended software update method.

To subscribe to eNewsletters and alerts:

https://asp.arubanetworks.com/notifications/subscriptions (requires an active Aruba Support Portal
(ASP) account to manage subscriptions). Security notices are viewable without an ASP account.

Warranty Information

To view warranty information for your product, go to https://www.arubanetworks.com/support-
services/product-warranties/.

Support and Other Resources | 25

Regulatory Information

To view the regulatory information for your product, view the Safety and Compliance Information for
Server, Storage, Power, Networking, and Rack Products, available at https://www.hpe.com/support/Safety-
Compliance-EnterpriseProducts

Additional regulatory information

Aruba is committed to providing our customers with information about the chemical substances in our
products as needed to comply with legal requirements, environmental data (company programs,
product recycling, energy efficiency), and safety information and compliance data, (RoHS and WEEE). For
more information, see https://www.arubanetworks.com/company/about-us/environmental-citizenship/.

Documentation Feedback

Aruba is committed to providing documentation that meets your needs. To help us improve the
documentation, send any errors, suggestions, or comments to Documentation Feedback (docsfeedback-
switching@hpe.com). When submitting your feedback, include the document title, part number, edition,
and publication date located on the front cover of the document. For online help content, include the
product name, product version, help edition, and publication date located on the legal notices page.

AOS-CX 10.10 CoPP Guide | (83xx, 9300, 10000 Switches)

26