AOS-CX 10.11 CoPP Guide

4100i, 6000, 6100 Switch Series

Published: February 2023
Edition: 2

Copyright Information

© Copyright 2023 Hewlett Packard Enterprise Development LP.

Open Source Code

This product includes code licensed under the GNU General Public License, the GNU Lesser General
Public License, and/or certain other open source licenses. A complete machine-readable copy of the
source code corresponding to such code is available upon request. This offer is valid to anyone in
receipt of this information and shall expire three years following the date of the final distribution of this
product version by Hewlett Packard Enterprise Company. To obtain such source code, send a check or
money order in the amount of US $10.00 to:

Hewlett Packard Enterprise Company
6280 America Center Drive
San Jose, CA 95002
USA

Notices

The information contained herein is subject to change without notice. The only warranties for Hewlett
Packard Enterprise products and services are set forth in the express warranty statements
accompanying such products and services. Nothing herein should be construed as constituting an
additional warranty. Hewlett Packard Enterprise shall not be liable for technical or editorial errors or
omissions contained herein.

Confidential computer software. Valid license from Hewlett Packard Enterprise required for possession,
use, or copying. Consistent with FAR 12.211 and 12.212, Commercial Computer Software, Computer
Software Documentation, and Technical Data for Commercial Items are licensed to the U.S. Government
under vendor's standard commercial license.

Links to third-party websites take you outside the Hewlett Packard Enterprise website. Hewlett Packard
Enterprise has no control over and is not responsible for information outside the Hewlett Packard
Enterprise website.

| 2

Contents
Contents
| Contents                            |                                |          |           | 3   |
| ----------------------------------- | ------------------------------ | -------- | --------- | --- |
| About                               | this                           | document |           | 4   |
| Applicableproducts                  |                                |          |           | 4   |
| Latestversionavailableonline        |                                |          |           | 4   |
| Commandsyntaxnotationconventions    |                                |          |           | 4   |
| Abouttheexamples                    |                                |          |           | 5   |
| Identifyingswitchportsandinterfaces |                                |          |           | 5   |
| Control                             | Plane                          | Policing | (CoPP)    | 7   |
| Overview                            |                                |          |           | 7   |
| ConfiguringCoPP                     |                                |          |           | 7   |
| Actualratesinhardware               |                                |          |           | 8   |
| CoPPcommands                        |                                |          |           | 8   |
|                                     | Classesoftraffic               |          |           | 8   |
|                                     | applycopp-policy               |          |           | 9   |
|                                     | class                          |          |           | 10  |
|                                     | clearcopp-policystatistics     |          |           | 11  |
|                                     | copp-policy                    |          |           | 11  |
|                                     | default-class                  |          |           | 13  |
|                                     | resetcopp-policy               |          |           | 13  |
|                                     | showcopp-policy                |          |           | 15  |
|                                     | showcopp-policyfactory-default |          |           | 16  |
|                                     | showcopp-policystatistics      |          |           | 17  |
|                                     | showtechcopp                   |          |           | 19  |
| Support                             | and                            | Other    | Resources | 20  |
| AccessingArubaSupport               |                                |          |           | 20  |
| AccessingUpdates                    |                                |          |           | 21  |
|                                     | ArubaSupportPortal             |          |           | 21  |
|                                     | MyNetworking                   |          |           | 21  |
| WarrantyInformation                 |                                |          |           | 21  |
| RegulatoryInformation               |                                |          |           | 21  |
| DocumentationFeedback               |                                |          |           | 22  |
3
AOS-CX10.11CoPPGuide| (4100i,6000,6100Switches)

Chapter 1

About this document

About this document

This document describes features of the AOS-CX network operating system. It is intended for
administrators responsible for installing, configuring, and managing Aruba switches on a network.

Applicable products
This document applies to the following products:

n Aruba 4100i Switch Series (JL817A, JL818A)

n Aruba 6000 Switch Series (R8N85A, R8N86A, R8N87A, R8N88A, R8N89A, R9Y03A)

n Aruba 6100 Switch Series (JL675A, JL676A, JL677A, JL678A, JL679A)

Latest version available online
Updates to this document can occur after initial publication. For the latest versions of product
documentation, see the links provided in Support and Other Resources.

Command syntax notation conventions

Convention

Usage

example-text

Identifies commands and their options and operands, code examples,
filenames, pathnames, and output displayed in a command window. Items
that appear like the example text in the previous column are to be entered
exactly as shown and are required unless enclosed in brackets ([ ]).

example-text

In code and screen examples, indicates text entered by a user.

Any of the following:
n <example-text>
n <example-text>
n example-text

n example-text

|

Identifies a placeholder—such as a parameter or a variable—that you must
substitute with an actual value in a command or in code:

n For output formats where italic text cannot be displayed, variables
are enclosed in angle brackets (< >). Substitute the text—including
the enclosing angle brackets—with an actual value.

n For output formats where italic text can be displayed, variables

might or might not be enclosed in angle brackets. Substitute the
text including the enclosing angle brackets, if any, with an actual
value.

Vertical bar. A logical OR that separates multiple items from which you can
choose only one.
Any spaces that are on either side of the vertical bar are included for
readability and are not a required part of the command syntax.

AOS-CX 10.11 CoPP Guide | (4100i, 6000, 6100 Switches)

4

Convention

Usage

{ }

[ ]

… or

...

Braces. Indicates that at least one of the enclosed items is required.

Brackets. Indicates that the enclosed item or items are optional.

Ellipsis:

n In code and screen examples, a vertical or horizontal ellipsis indicates an

omission of information.

n In syntax using brackets and braces, an ellipsis indicates items that can be

repeated. When an item followed by ellipses is enclosed in brackets, zero

or more items can be specified.

About the examples
Examples in this document are representative and might not match your particular switch or
environment.

The slot and port numbers in this document are for illustration only and might be unavailable on your
switch.

Understanding the CLI prompts

When illustrating the prompts in the command line interface (CLI), this document uses the generic term
switch, instead of the host name of the switch. For example:
switch>

The CLI prompt indicates the current command context. For example:
switch>

Indicates the operator command context.

switch#

Indicates the manager command context.

switch(CONTEXT-NAME)#

Indicates the configuration context for a feature. For example:

switch(config-if)#

Identifies the interface context.

Variable information in CLI prompts

In certain configuration contexts, the prompt may include variable information. For example, when in
the VLAN configuration context, a VLAN number appears in the prompt:
switch(config-vlan-100)#

When referring to this context, this document uses the syntax:
switch(config-vlan-<VLAN-ID>)#

Where <VLAN-ID> is a variable representing the VLAN number.

Identifying switch ports and interfaces
Physical ports on the switch and their corresponding logical software interfaces are identified using the
format:
member/slot/port

On the 4100i Switch Series

About this document | 5

n member: Always 1. VSF is not supported on this switch.

n slot: Always 1. This is not a modular switch, so there are no slots.

n port: Physical number of a port on the switch.

For example, the logical interface 1/1/4 in software is associated with physical port 4 on the switch.

On the 6000 and 6100 Switch Series

n member: Always 1. VSF is not supported on this switch.

n slot: Always 1. This is not a modular switch, so there are no slots.

n port: Physical number of a port on the switch.

For example, the logical interface 1/1/4 in software is associated with physical port 4 on the switch.

AOS-CX 10.11 CoPP Guide | (4100i, 6000, 6100 Switches)

6

Control Plane Policing (CoPP)

Chapter 2

Control Plane Policing (CoPP)

Overview
CoPP provides a way for administrators to protect the management processor on the switch from high
packet loads (generated by malicious or nonmalicious sources) that might interfere with its ability to
keep data plane traffic flowing. For example, a denial of service attack can result in excessive traffic that
would slow down the management processor and negatively affect switch throughput.

A CoPP policy is composed of one or more classes. Each class defines one or more target protocols and
how their traffic is managed. Every policy also has a default class to regulate packets that do not match
any other class. The following actions can be applied for all packets matching a class:

n Drop the packets. (Excluding the default class.)

n Set the processing priority in the range 0 to 6 (0 - highest priority and 6 - lowest priority).

n Set the maximum data rate in packets per second (pps) at which each line module can send packets

to the management processor.

Up to 32 CoPP policies can be defined, but only one can be active on the switch at a time. A CoPP policy
must always be active on the switch. By default, the switch has a CoPP policy named default which is
automatically applied at first boot.

When the switch reboots, the CoPP policy that was actively applied to the switch before the reboot
occurred s applied if it was saved to the startup configuration with the copy running-config startup-
config command.

Configuring CoPP

Procedure

1. Configure the default CoPP policy, edit an existing policy, or create a policy with the command

copp-policy.

2. Add, edit, or remove classes in the policy with the command class.

3.

If the policy is not the active policy on the switch, apply it with the command apply copp-policy.
(Changes made to an active policy take effect immediately and do not need to be applied.)

4. Review the CoPP policy configuration settings with the command show copp-policy.

Example

This example creates the following configuration:

n Defines a new policy named My_CoppPolicy.

n Adds two classes to the policy.

n Activates the policy.

n Displays policy configuration settings.

AOS-CX 10.11 CoPP Guide | (4100i, 6000, 6100 Switches)

7

| switch(config)# |     |     | copp-policy | My_CoppPolicy |     |     |     |
| --------------- | --- | --- | ----------- | ------------- | --- | --- | --- |
switch(config-copp)#
|                       |       |             | class    | igmp          | priority      | 6 rate 5000       |          |
| --------------------- | ----- | ----------- | -------- | ------------- | ------------- | ----------------- | -------- |
| switch(config-copp)#  |       |             | class    | lacp          | priority      | 2 rate 2000       |          |
| switch(config-copp)#  |       |             | exit     |               |               |                   |          |
| switch(config)#       |       |             | apply    | copp-policy   | My_CoppPolicy |                   |          |
| switch(config)#       |       |             | exit     |               |               |                   |          |
| switch#               | show  | copp-policy |          | My_CoppPolicy |               |                   |          |
| class                 |       |             |          | drop priority | rate          | pps hardware      | rate pps |
| --------------------- |       |             |          | ---- -------- | --------      | ----------------- |          |
| igmp                  |       |             |          | 6             | 5000          | 5000              |          |
| lacp                  |       |             |          | 2             | 2000          | 2000              |          |
| default               |       |             |          | 1             | 6000          | 6000              |          |
| Actual                | rates | in          | hardware |               |               |                   |          |
Currently,theactualrateinhardwareisdeterminedbyamappingbasedontheconfiguredrate,shown
bythefollowingtableofthefirstnineactualrates.
Theprecedingtableshowsthefirstnineactualratesavailableinhardware.Higherratesareavailable.
The'show copp-policy statistics class <CLASS>'commandcanbeusedtoshowtheactualratein
hardwareforaspecificclass.The'show copp-policy <NAME>'commandcanbeusedtoshowtheactual
ratesforallclassesconfiguredinaspecificCoPPpolicy,ifthepolicyisactivelyapplied.
| CoPP    | commands |         |     |     |     |     |     |
| ------- | -------- | ------- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| Classes | of       | traffic |     |     |     |     |     |
Thedifferentclassesoftrafficthatcanbeindividuallyconfiguredare:
n arp-broadcast:AddressResolutionProtocolpacketswithabroadcastdestinationMACaddress.
n arp-unicast:AddressResolutionProtocolpacketswithaswitchsystemdestinationMACaddress.
n dhcp:DynamicHostConfigurationProtocolpackets.AlsoincludessnoopedDHCPpacketsifDHCP
snoopingisenabled.
n icmp-broadcast-ipv4:InternetControlMessageProtocolpacketswithabroadcastormulticast
destinationIPv4address.
n icmp-multicast-ipv6:InternetControlMessageProtocolpacketswithawell-knownmulticast
destinationIPv6address.
n icmp-security-ipv6:IPv6InternetControlMessageProtocolpacketsinterceptedandinspected.
n icmp-unicast-ipv4:InternetControlMessageProtocolpacketswithadestinationIPv4address
ownedbytheswitch
n icmp-unicast-ipv6:InternetControlMessageProtocolpacketswithadestinationIPv6address
ownedbytheswitch.
n igmp:InternetGroupManagementProtocolpackets.
n lacp:LinkAggregationControlProtocolpacketswiththedestinationMACaddress01:80:c2:00:00:02.
n lldp:LinkLayerDiscoveryProtocolpacketswiththedestinationMACaddress01:80:c2:00:00:0e.
n loop-protect:LoopProtectionpacketswiththedestinationMACaddress09:00:09:09:13:a6.
n manageability:UnicastIPpacketsaddressedtotheswitchforspecificprotocolsthatdonothavea
dedicatedCoPPclasslikeHTTP,SSH,Telnet,andRADIUS.
n mvrp:MultipleVLANRegistrationProtocolpacketswiththedestinationMACaddress
01:80:c2:00:00:20or01:80:c2:00:00:21
ControlPlanePolicing(CoPP)|8

n ntp: Network Time Protocol packets with a destination IP address owned by the switch.

n stp: Spanning Tree Protocol (STP) packets with the destination MAC address 01:80:c2:00:00:00 or Per-

VLAN Spanning Tree (PVST) packets with the destination MAC address 01:00:0c:cc:cc:cd.

n udld: Unidirectional Link Detection packets with the destination MAC address 01:00:0c:cc:cc:cc or

00:e0:52:00:00:00, or Cisco Discovery Protocol packets with the destination MAC address
01:00:0c:cc:cc:cc.

n unresolved-ip-unicast: Packets to be software forwarded by the management processor.

To regulate any other traffic destined for the CPU, every CoPP policy has a class named default that can
also be configured to regulate other traffic to the CPU or prevent other traffic from being delivered.

All IPsec traffic received by the CPU will be regulated by the ipsec class regardless of the encapsulated protocol.

apply copp-policy
apply copp-policy { <NAME> | default }
no apply copp-policy <NAME>

Description

Applies a CoPP policy to the switch, replacing the policy that is in effect. There may be a brief
interruption in traffic flow to the management processor while the switch implements the change.

Enter the no apply copp-policy <NAME> command with the name of a CoPP policy to unapply a CoPP
policy and apply the default CoPP policy. This will only take effect if the specified policy is actively
applied. Since there must always be a CoPP policy applied, this command effectively attempts to replace
the applied CoPP policy with the default CoPP policy. The default CoPP policy cannot be unapplied using
this command.

Parameter

<NAME>

default

Usage

Description

Specifies the name of the policy to apply. Length: 1 to 64
characters.

Applies the default policy.

If the new policy cannot be applied (for example, due to a lack of hardware resources), the previous
policy remains in effect. Use the show copp-policy command to determine which policy is in effect.

Examples

Applying a policy named My_CoppPolicy:

switch(config)# apply copp-policy My_CoppPolicy

Applying the default policy:

switch(config)# apply copp-policy default

Unapplying a policy named My_CoppPolicy:

AOS-CX 10.11 CoPP Guide | (4100i, 6000, 6100 Switches)

9

| switch(config)# |             | no  | apply   | copp-policy | My_CoppPolicy |     |
| --------------- | ----------- | --- | ------- | ----------- | ------------- | --- |
| Command         | History     |     |         |             |               |     |
| Release         |             |     |         |             | Modification  |     |
| 10.07orearlier  |             |     |         |             | --            |     |
| Command         | Information |     |         |             |               |     |
| Platforms       | Command     |     | context |             | Authority     |     |
Allplatforms config Administratorsorlocalusergroupmemberswithexecutionrights
forthiscommand.
class
| class <CLASS>    | {drop | |     | priority   | <PRIORITY> |            | rate <RATE>} |
| ---------------- | ----- | ----- | ---------- | ---------- | ---------- | ------------ |
| no class <CLASS> |       | {drop | | priority |            | <PRIORITY> | rate <RATE>} |
Description
AddsaclasstoaCoPPpolicy.Iftheclassexists,theexistingclassismodified.Changesmadetoan
active(applied)policytakeeffectimmediately.
Whenaddingormodifyingaclassinanactivepolicy,CoPPimmediatelyactivatesthechangeonthe
switch.Incaseswhereinsufficienthardwareresourcesexisttosupportaclassoritsaction,CoPPfailsto
activatethechangedclassontheswitch.Whenthisfailureoccurs,theactiveconfigurationontheswitch
willbeoutofsyncwithitsdefinition.Todiagnoseandremedythissituation:
n Usetheshow copp-policycommandtodeterminewhichclassesareoutofsyncbetweentheactive
policyanditsdefinition.
n Usethereset copp-policycommandtosynchronizetheactivepolicywithitsdefinition.This
synchronizationchangestheclassesinthedefinitiontomatchtheclassesintheactivepolicy.
Thenoformofthiscommandremovestheconfigurationfortheclass.Trafficfortheclasswillbe
prioritizedandregulatedusingthefactorydefaultconfigurationfortheclass.Usetheshow copp-
factory-defaultcommandtodisplaythefactorydefaultCoPPpolicy.Tostopaclassoftraffic
policy
fromreachingtheprocessor,settheclassactiontodrop.
| Parameter |     |     |     |     | Description |     |
| --------- | --- | --- | --- | --- | ----------- | --- |
<CLASS>
Specifiestheclasstoaddoredit.
| drop     |            |     |     |     | Droppacketsmatchingtheselectedclass. |     |
| -------- | ---------- | --- | --- | --- | ------------------------------------ | --- |
| priority | <PRIORITY> |     |     |     |                                      |     |
Specifiesthepriorityforpacketsmatchingtheselectedclass.
Range:0to6.
rate <RATE> Specifiesthemaximumrate,inpacketspersecond(pps),for
packetsmatchingtheselectedclass.Range:25to99999.
Examples
AddingaclasstohandleLACPtrafficwithpriorityof2andrateof2000:
ControlPlanePolicing(CoPP)|10

| switch(config-copp)# |     | class lacp | priority | 2 rate 2000 |
| -------------------- | --- | ---------- | -------- | ----------- |
ModifyingtheclasstodropLLDPpackets:
| switch(config-copp)# |     | class lldp | drop |     |
| -------------------- | --- | ---------- | ---- | --- |
RemovingtheclassthathandlesLLDPpackets.
| switch(config-copp)# |             | no class | lldp         |     |
| -------------------- | ----------- | -------- | ------------ | --- |
| Command              | History     |          |              |     |
| Release              |             |          | Modification |     |
| 10.07orearlier       |             |          | --           |     |
| Command              | Information |          |              |     |
| Platforms            | Command     | context  | Authority    |     |
Allplatforms config-copp Administratorsorlocalusergroupmemberswithexecutionrights
forthiscommand.
| clear copp-policy |            | statistics |     |     |
| ----------------- | ---------- | ---------- | --- | --- |
| clear copp-policy | statistics |            |     |     |
Description
ResetsstatisticsforallCoPPclassestozero.
Examples
Displayingandthenresettingstatisticsforallclassesintheactivepolicy:
| Command        | History     |         |              |     |
| -------------- | ----------- | ------- | ------------ | --- |
| Release        |             |         | Modification |     |
| 10.07orearlier |             |         | --           |     |
| Command        | Information |         |              |     |
| Platforms      | Command     | context | Authority    |     |
Allplatforms Operator(>)orManager OperatorsorAdministratorsorlocalusergroupmemberswith
executionrightsforthiscommand.Operatorscanexecutethis
(#)
commandfromtheoperatorcontext(>)only.
copp-policy
| copp-policy | {<NAME> | | default [revert]} |     |     |
| ----------- | ------- | ------------------- | --- | --- |
11
| AOS-CX10.11CoPPGuide| | (4100i,6000,6100Switches) |     |     |     |
| --------------------- | ------------------------- | --- | --- | --- |

| no copp-policy <NAME> |     |     |
| --------------------- | --- | --- |
Description
CreatesaCoPPpolicyandswitchestotheconfig-coppcontextforthepolicy.Or,ifthespecifiedpolicy
exists,switchestotheconfig-coppcontextforthepolicy.Apredefinedpolicy,nameddefault,contains
factorydefaultclassesandisappliedtotheswitchatfirststartup.Thispolicycannotbedeleted,butits
configurationcanbechanged.
ThenoformofthiscommandremovesaCoPPpolicy.Ifapolicyisactive(applied),itcannotberemoved
.Itmustbereplacedwithanotherpolicybeforeitcanberemoved.
| Parameter |     | Description                                         |
| --------- | --- | --------------------------------------------------- |
| <NAME>    |     | Specifiesthenameofthepolicytoaddoredit.Length:1to64 |
characters.Thenamemustnotbeasubstringofanyofthe
followingreservedwords:default,factory-default,commands,
configuration,orstatistics.
| default |     | SpecifiesthedefaultCoPPpolicy.Usethisdefaultpolicyto |
| ------- | --- | ---------------------------------------------------- |
configurethedefaultpolicy.
| revert |     | SetsthedefaultCoPPpolicytoitsfactorysettings. |
| ------ | --- | --------------------------------------------- |
Examples
CreatingapolicynamedMy_CoppPolicy:
| switch(config)# | copp-policy | My_CoppPolicy |
| --------------- | ----------- | ------------- |
switch(config-copp)#
RemovingapolicynamedMy_CoppPolicy:
| switch(config)# | no copp-policy | My_CoppPolicy |
| --------------- | -------------- | ------------- |
Settingthedefaultpolicytoitsfactorysettings:
| switch(config)# | copp-policy | default revert |
| --------------- | ----------- | -------------- |
UnapplyingthepolicynamedMy_CoppPolicy:
| switch(config)# | no apply | copp-policy My_CoppPolicy |
| --------------- | -------- | ------------------------- |
Command History
| Release        |     | Modification |
| -------------- | --- | ------------ |
| 10.07orearlier |     | --           |
Command Information
ControlPlanePolicing(CoPP)|12

| Platforms | Command | context | Authority |     |
| --------- | ------- | ------- | --------- | --- |
Allplatforms config Administratorsorlocalusergroupmemberswithexecutionrights
forthiscommand.
default-class
| default-class | priority | <PRIORITY> | rate <RATE> |     |
| ------------- | -------- | ---------- | ----------- | --- |
Description
ConfiguresthedefaultclassthatisautomaticallydefinedforallCoPPpolicies.Thedefaultclasscannot
beremoved,butitsconfigurationcanbechanged.Thedefaultclassisappliedtotrafficthatdoesnot
matchanyotherclassdefinedforapolicy.
| Parameter |     |     | Description |     |
| --------- | --- | --- | ----------- | --- |
priority <PRIORITY> Specifiesthepriorityforpacketsmatchingtheselectedclass.
Range:0to7.
rate <RATE> Specifiesthemaximumrate,inpacketspersecond(pps),for
packetsmatchingtheselectedclass.Range:25to99999.
Example
Settingthedefaultclasstoapriorityof2andrateof2000:
| switch(config-copp)# |             | default-class | priority     | 2 rate 2000 |
| -------------------- | ----------- | ------------- | ------------ | ----------- |
| Command              | History     |               |              |             |
| Release              |             |               | Modification |             |
| 10.07orearlier       |             |               | --           |             |
| Command              | Information |               |              |             |
| Platforms            | Command     | context       | Authority    |             |
Allplatforms config-copp Administratorsorlocalusergroupmemberswithexecutionrights
forthiscommand.
| reset copp-policy |          |           |     |     |
| ----------------- | -------- | --------- | --- | --- |
| reset copp-policy | { <NAME> | | default | }   |     |
Description
ResetsanactiveCoPPpolicytomatchthesettingsthatarecurrentlyineffectfortheactivepolicyonthe
switch.Changesmadetotheactivepolicythatcouldnotbeactivatedareremovedfromtheactive
policy.WhentheswitchfailstoaddormodifyaclassinanactiveCoPPpolicy,itispossibletheactive
policysettingsontheswitchmaybeoutofsyncwiththosedefinedinthepolicy.
13
| AOS-CX10.11CoPPGuide| | (4100i,6000,6100Switches) |     |     |     |
| --------------------- | ------------------------- | --- | --- | --- |

| Parameter |     |     |     | Description                                     |     |     |
| --------- | --- | --- | --- | ----------------------------------------------- | --- | --- |
| <NAME>    |     |     |     | Specifiesthenameofthepolicytoreset.Length:1to64 |     |     |
characters.
| default |     |     |     | Resetsthedefaultpolicytomatchitsactivesettings. |     |     |
| ------- | --- | --- | --- | ----------------------------------------------- | --- | --- |
Examples
ResettingapolicynamedMy_CoppPolicy:
| switch# show          | copp-policy |       | My_CoppPolicy    |          |                   |          |
| --------------------- | ----------- | ----- | ---------------- | -------- | ----------------- | -------- |
| class                 |             | drop  | priority         | rate     | pps hardware      | rate pps |
| --------------------- |             | ----  | --------         | -------- | ----------------- |          |
| igmp                  |             |       | 6                | 5000     | 5000              |          |
| lacp                  |             |       | 2                | 2000     | 2000              |          |
| default               |             |       | 1                | 6000     | 6000              |          |
| switch# config        | terminal    |       |                  |          |                   |          |
| switch(config)#       | copp-policy |       | My_CoppPolicy    |          |                   |          |
| switch(config-copp)#  |             | class | stp              | priority | 4 rate 4000       |          |
| switch(config-copp)#  |             | do    | show copp-policy |          | My_CoppPolicy     |          |
| class                 |             | drop  | priority         | rate     | pps hardware      | rate pps |
| --------------------- |             | ----  | --------         | -------- | ----------------- |          |
| igmp                  |             |       | 6                | 5000     | 5000              |          |
| lacp                  |             |       | 2                | 2000     | 2000              |          |
| default               |             |       | 1                | 6000     | 6000              |          |
% Warning: user-specified classes in CoPP policy My_CoppPolicy do not match
| active configuration. |     |     |     |     |     |     |
| --------------------- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
switch(config-copp)# do show copp-policy My_CoppPolicy configuration
| class                 |     | drop | priority | rate     | pps applied |     |
| --------------------- | --- | ---- | -------- | -------- | ----------- | --- |
| --------------------- |     | ---- | -------- | -------- | -------     |     |
| igmp                  |     |      | 6        | 5000     | yes         |     |
| lacp                  |     |      | 2        | 2000     | yes         |     |
| stp                   |     |      | 4        | 4000     | no          |     |
| default               |     |      | 1        | 6000     | yes         |     |
% Warning: user-specified classes in CoPP policy My_CoppPolicy do not match
| active configuration. |       |             |             |               |                   |          |
| --------------------- | ----- | ----------- | ----------- | ------------- | ----------------- | -------- |
| switch(config-copp)#  |       | exit        |             |               |                   |          |
| switch(config)#       | reset | copp-policy |             | My_CoppPolicy |                   |          |
| switch(config)#       | do    | show        | copp-policy | My_CoppPolicy |                   |          |
| class                 |       | drop        | priority    | rate          | pps hardware      | rate pps |
| --------------------- |       | ----        | --------    | --------      | ----------------- |          |
| igmp                  |       |             | 6           | 5000          | 5000              |          |
| lacp                  |       |             | 2           | 2000          | 2000              |          |
| default               |       |             | 1           | 6000          | 6000              |          |
Resettingthedefaultpolicy:
| switch(config)#     | reset | copp-policy |     | default      |     |     |
| ------------------- | ----- | ----------- | --- | ------------ | --- | --- |
| Command History     |       |             |     |              |     |     |
| Release             |       |             |     | Modification |     |     |
| 10.07orearlier      |       |             |     | --           |     |     |
| Command Information |       |             |     |              |     |     |
ControlPlanePolicing(CoPP)|14

| Platforms | Command | context | Authority |     |     |
| --------- | ------- | ------- | --------- | --- | --- |
Allplatforms config Administratorsorlocalusergroupmemberswithexecutionrights
forthiscommand.
show copp-policy
show copp-policy [<NAME> | default] [commands] [configuration]
Description
ShowsCoPPpolicysettingsforaspecificCoPPpolicy.Whenenteredwithoutspecifyingeitheranameor
thedefaultparameter,showsalltheCoPPpolicysettingsthatareactiveontheswitchandhave
successfullybeenprogrammedintothehardware.
Awarningisdisplayedif:
n Theactiveanduser-specifiedapplicationsofapolicydonotmatch.
n Theactiveanduser-specifiedconfigurationsofapolicydonotmatch.
| Parameter |     |     | Description |     |     |
| --------- | --- | --- | ----------- | --- | --- |
<NAME>
Specifiesthenameofthepolicyforwhichtodisplaysettings.
Length:1to64characters.
| default  |     |     | DisplaysCoPPsettingsforthedefaultpolicy. |     |     |
| -------- | --- | --- | ---------------------------------------- | --- | --- |
| commands |     |     | DisplaysoutputasCLIcommands.             |     |     |
configuration Displaysuser-specifiedCoPPsettingsandnottheactivesettings.
Example
DisplayingtheCoPPpoliciesdefinedintheconfigurationandtheactiveapplication:
| switch# | show copp-policy |     |     |     |     |
| ------- | ---------------- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| applied | copp_policy_name |     |     |     |     |
| ------- | ---------------- |     |     |     |     |
My_CoppPolicy
| applied | default |     |     |     |     |
| ------- | ------- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
switch#
DisplayingtheactiveconfigurationofallCoPPpoliciesasCLIcommands:
Displayingthedefaultpolicy:
| switch#               | show copp-policy | default        |          |                   |          |
| --------------------- | ---------------- | -------------- | -------- | ----------------- | -------- |
| class                 |                  | drop priority  | rate pps | hardware          | rate pps |
| --------------------- |                  | ---- --------  | -------- | ----------------- |          |
| arp-broadcast         |                  | 2              | 1250     | 1250              |          |
| arp-unicast           |                  | 3              | 825      | 825               |          |
| <--OUTPUT             | OMITTED          | FOR BREVITY--> |          |                   |          |
| default               |                  | 2              | 4225     | 4225              |          |
| Command History       |                  |                |          |                   |          |
15
| AOS-CX10.11CoPPGuide| | (4100i,6000,6100Switches) |     |     |     |     |
| --------------------- | ------------------------- | --- | --- | --- | --- |

| Release        |             |         |         |     | Modification |     |     |     |
| -------------- | ----------- | ------- | ------- | --- | ------------ | --- | --- | --- |
| 10.07orearlier |             |         |         |     | --           |     |     |     |
| Command        | Information |         |         |     |              |     |     |     |
| Platforms      |             | Command | context |     | Authority    |     |     |     |
Allplatforms Operator(>)orManager OperatorsorAdministratorsorlocalusergroupmemberswith
executionrightsforthiscommand.Operatorscanexecutethis
(#)
commandfromtheoperatorcontext(>)only.
| show | copp-policy |                 | factory-default |            |     |     |     |     |
| ---- | ----------- | --------------- | --------------- | ---------- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| show | copp-policy | factory-default |                 | [commands] |     |     |     |     |
Description
Displaytheconfigurationforthefactory-defaultCoPPpolicy.
| Parameter |     |     |     |     | Description                  |     |     |     |
| --------- | --- | --- | --- | --- | ---------------------------- | --- | --- | --- |
| commands  |     |     |     |     | DisplaysoutputasCLIcommands. |     |     |     |
Example
Displayingthefactory-defaultpolicy:
| switch#               |           | show copp-policy |      | factory-default |     |          |     |     |
| --------------------- | --------- | ---------------- | ---- | --------------- | --- | -------- | --- | --- |
| class                 |           |                  | drop | priority        |     | rate pps |     |     |
| --------------------- |           |                  | ---- | --------        |     | -------- |     |     |
| arp-broadcast         |           |                  |      | 2               |     | 1250     |     |     |
| arp-unicast           |           |                  |      | 3               |     | 825      |     |     |
|                       | <--OUTPUT | OMITTED          | FOR  | BREVITY-->      |     |          |     |     |
| default               |           |                  |      | 2               |     | 4225     |     |     |
DisplayingtheactiveconfigurationofMy_CoppPolicy(My_CoppPolicyisapplied):
switch#
|                       |     | config terminal |             |             |               |               |                   |          |
| --------------------- | --- | --------------- | ----------- | ----------- | ------------- | ------------- | ----------------- | -------- |
| switch(config)#       |     | apply           | copp-policy |             | My_CoppPolicy |               |                   |          |
| switch(config)#       |     | do              | show        | copp-policy |               | My_CoppPolicy |                   |          |
| class                 |     |                 | drop        | priority    |               | rate pps      | hardware          | rate pps |
| --------------------- |     |                 | ----        | --------    |               | --------      | ----------------- |          |
| igmp                  |     |                 |             | 6           |               | 5000          | 5000              |          |
| lacp                  |     |                 |             | 2           |               | 2000          | 2000              |          |
| default               |     |                 |             | 1           |               | 6000          | 6000              |          |
DisplayingtheactiveconfigurationofMy_CoppPolicyasCLIcommands:
switch#
|             |       | show copp-policy |     | My_CoppPolicy |      | commands |     |     |
| ----------- | ----- | ---------------- | --- | ------------- | ---- | -------- | --- | --- |
| copp-policy |       | My_CoppPolicy    |     |               |      |          |     |     |
|             | class | igmp priority    |     | 6 rate        | 5000 |          |     |     |
|             | class | lacp priority    |     | 2 rate        | 2000 |          |     |     |
ControlPlanePolicing(CoPP)|16

|       | default-class |     | priority      | 1 rate | 6000 |     |     |
| ----- | ------------- | --- | ------------- | ------ | ---- | --- | --- |
| apply | copp-policy   |     | My_CoppPolicy |        |      |     |     |
Displayingtheuser-specifiedconfigurationofMy_CoppPolicy:
| switch#               |     | show copp-policy |     | My_CoppPolicy |     | configuration |         |
| --------------------- | --- | ---------------- | --- | ------------- | --- | ------------- | ------- |
| class                 |     |                  |     | drop priority |     | rate pps      | applied |
| --------------------- |     |                  |     | ---- -------- |     | --------      | ------- |
| igmp                  |     |                  |     | 6             |     | 5000          | yes     |
| lacp                  |     |                  |     | 2             |     | 2000          | yes     |
| default               |     |                  |     | 1             |     | 6000          | yes     |
Displayingtheuser-specifiedconfigurationofMy_CoppPolicyasCLIcommands:
| switch#        |               | show copp-policy |               | My_CoppPolicy |              | commands | configuration |
| -------------- | ------------- | ---------------- | ------------- | ------------- | ------------ | -------- | ------------- |
| copp-policy    |               | My_CoppPolicy    |               |               |              |          |               |
|                | class         | igmp             | priority      | 6 rate        | 5000         |          |               |
|                | class         | lacp             | priority      | 2 rate        | 2000         |          |               |
|                | default-class |                  | priority      | 1 rate        | 6000         |          |               |
| apply          | copp-policy   |                  | My_CoppPolicy |               |              |          |               |
| Command        | History       |                  |               |               |              |          |               |
| Release        |               |                  |               |               | Modification |          |               |
| 10.07orearlier |               |                  |               |               | --           |          |               |
| Command        | Information   |                  |               |               |              |          |               |
| Platforms      |               | Command          |               | context       | Authority    |          |               |
Allplatforms Operator(>)orManager OperatorsorAdministratorsorlocalusergroupmemberswith
|     |     | (#) |     |     | executionrightsforthiscommand.Operatorscanexecutethis |     |     |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | ----------------------------------------------------- | --- | --- |
commandfromtheoperatorcontext(>)only.
| show | copp-policy |     | statistics |     |     |     |     |
| ---- | ----------- | --- | ---------- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
show copp-policy statistics [class <CLASS> | default-class | non-zero]
Description
Displaysstatisticsforallclasses,asingleclass,orallclasseswithnon-zerostatisticsintheactiveCoPP
policy.
| Parameter     |     |     |     |     | Description                                   |     |     |
| ------------- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --------------------------------------------- | --- | --- |
| <CLASS>       |     |     |     |     | Specifiestheclassforwhichtodisplaystatistics. |     |     |
| default-class |     |     |     |     | Displaysstatisticsforthedefaultclass.         |     |     |
non-zero Displaysstatisticsforallclasseswithnon-zerostatistics.
Usage
17
| AOS-CX10.11CoPPGuide| |     | (4100i,6000,6100Switches) |     |     |     |     |     |
| --------------------- | --- | ------------------------- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |

Ifasingleclassisspecified,thepriorityandratethathasbeenprogrammedinhardwareforthatclass
willbeshown.
Examples
ApplyingthedefaultCoPPpolicyanddisplayingstatisticsforallclassesintheactivelyappliedpolicy:
Theratedisplayedistheactualrateinhardware.
| switch#         | config |             | terminal    |             |            |         |     |     |
| --------------- | ------ | ----------- | ----------- | ----------- | ---------- | ------- | --- | --- |
| switch(config)# |        |             | apply       | copp-policy |            | default |     |     |
| switch(config)# |        |             | exit        |             |            |         |     |     |
| switch#         | show   | copp-policy |             | statistics  |            |         |     |     |
| Statistics      |        | for         | CoPP policy |             | 'default': |         |     |     |
Totals:
| packets |     | passed | :   | 1000 |     |     | packets dropped | : 1500 |
| ------- | --- | ------ | --- | ---- | --- | --- | --------------- | ------ |
Class: default
| packets |     | passed | :   | 400 |     |     | packets dropped | : 600 |
| ------- | --- | ------ | --- | --- | --- | --- | --------------- | ----- |
Class: arp-broadcast
| packets |           | passed | :       | 500 |            |     | packets dropped | : 800 |
| ------- | --------- | ------ | ------- | --- | ---------- | --- | --------------- | ----- |
|         | <--OUTPUT |        | OMITTED | FOR | BREVITY--> |     |                 |       |
Displayingstatisticsforthedefaultclassintheactivepolicy:
| switch(config)# |     |     | show copp-policy |     |            | statistics | default-class |     |
| --------------- | --- | --- | ---------------- | --- | ---------- | ---------- | ------------- | --- |
| Statistics      |     | for | CoPP policy      |     | 'default': |            |               |     |
Class: default
| Description: |       | Default |     |     |      |     |                 |       |
| ------------ | ----- | ------- | --- | --- | ---- | --- | --------------- | ----- |
| priority     |       |         |     | :   | 2    |     |                 |       |
| rate         | (pps) |         |     | :   | 4225 |     |                 |       |
| packets      |       | passed  | :   | 400 |      |     | packets dropped | : 600 |
Displayingstatisticsfortheclassarp-broadcastintheactivelyappliedpolicy:
| switch#    | show | copp-policy |             | statistics |            | class | arp-broadcast |     |
| ---------- | ---- | ----------- | ----------- | ---------- | ---------- | ----- | ------------- | --- |
| Statistics |      | for         | CoPP policy |            | 'default': |       |               |     |
Class: arp-broadcast
| Description:   |             | Address | Resolution |     | Protocol |              | broadcast       |       |
| -------------- | ----------- | ------- | ---------- | --- | -------- | ------------ | --------------- | ----- |
| priority       |             |         |            | :   | 2        |              |                 |       |
| rate           | (pps)       |         |            | :   | 1250     |              |                 |       |
| packets        |             | passed  | :          | 500 |          |              | packets dropped | : 800 |
| Command        | History     |         |            |     |          |              |                 |       |
| Release        |             |         |            |     |          | Modification |                 |       |
| 10.07orearlier |             |         |            |     |          | --           |                 |       |
| Command        | Information |         |            |     |          |              |                 |       |
ControlPlanePolicing(CoPP)|18

| Platforms |     | Command | context | Authority |
| --------- | --- | ------- | ------- | --------- |
Allplatforms OperatorsorAdministratorsorlocalusergroupmemberswith
Operator(>)orManager
|     |     | (#) |     | executionrightsforthiscommand.Operatorscanexecutethis |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | ----------------------------------------------------- |
commandfromtheoperatorcontext(>)only.
| show tech | copp |     |     |     |
| --------- | ---- | --- | --- | --- |
| show tech | copp |     |     |     |
Description
DisplaystheoutputofallshowcommandssupportedbyCoPP.
Examples
Capturingthecommandoutputintoalocalfile:
| switch# | show | tech | copp local-file |     |
| ------- | ---- | ---- | --------------- | --- |
Show Tech output stored in local-file. Please use 'copy show-tech local-file' to
| copy-out | this | file. |     |     |
| -------- | ---- | ----- | --- | --- |
switch#
|            | copy | show-tech | local-file | ?   |
| ---------- | ---- | --------- | ---------- | --- |
| REMOTE_URL |      | URL       | of syntax  |     |
{tftp://|sftp://USER@}{IP|HOST}[:PORT][;blocksize=VAL]/FILE
| STORAGE_URL    |             | URL       | of syntax  | usb:/file    |
| -------------- | ----------- | --------- | ---------- | ------------ |
| switch#        | copy        | show-tech | local-file |              |
| Command        | History     |           |            |              |
| Release        |             |           |            | Modification |
| 10.07orearlier |             |           |            | --           |
| Command        | Information |           |            |              |
| Platforms      |             | Command   | context    | Authority    |
Allplatforms Manager(#) Administratorsorlocalusergroupmemberswithexecutionrights
forthiscommand.
19
| AOS-CX10.11CoPPGuide| | (4100i,6000,6100Switches) |     |     |     |
| --------------------- | ------------------------- | --- | --- | --- |

Support and Other Resources

Chapter 3

Support and Other Resources

Accessing Aruba Support

Aruba Support Services

https://www.arubanetworks.com/support-services/

AOS-CX Switch Software Documentation
Portal

https://www.arubanetworks.com/techdocs/AOS-CX/help_
portal/Content/home.htm

Aruba Support Portal

https://asp.arubanetworks.com/

North America telephone

1-800-943-4526 (US & Canada Toll-Free Number)

+1-408-754-1200 (Primary - Toll Number)

+1-650-385-6582 (Backup - Toll Number - Use only when all other

numbers are not working)

International telephone

https://www.arubanetworks.com/support-services/contact-
support/

Be sure to collect the following information before contacting Support:

n Technical support registration number (if applicable)

n Product name, model or version, and serial number

n Operating system name and version

n Firmware version

n Error messages

n Product-specific reports and logs

n Add-on products or components

n Third-party products or components

Other useful sites

Other websites that can be used to find information:

https://community.arubanetworks.com/

https://www.arubanetworks.com/techdocs/AOS-CX/help_portal/Content/home.htm

Airheads social
forums and
Knowledge Base

AOS-CX Switch
Software
Documentation
Portal

AOS-CX 10.11 CoPP Guide | (4100i, 6000, 6100 Switches)

20

Aruba Hardware
Documentation
and Translations
Portal

https://www.arubanetworks.com/techdocs/hardware/DocumentationPortal/Content/home.
htm

Aruba software

https://asp.arubanetworks.com/downloads

Software
licensing

End-of-Life
information

https://lms.arubanetworks.com/

https://www.arubanetworks.com/support-services/end-of-life/

Aruba Developer
Hub

https://developer.arubanetworks.com/

Accessing Updates
You can access updates from the Aruba Support Portal or the HPE My Networking Website.

Aruba Support Portal

https://asp.arubanetworks.com/downloads

If you are unable to find your product in the Aruba Support Portal, you may need to search My
Networking, where older networking products can be found:

My Networking

https://www.hpe.com/networking/support

To view and update your entitlements, and to link your contracts and warranties with your profile, go to
the Hewlett Packard Enterprise Support Center More Information on Access to Support Materials
page:

https://support.hpe.com/portal/site/hpsc/aae/home/

Access to some updates might require product entitlement when accessed through the Hewlett Packard
Enterprise Support Center. You must have an HP Passport set up with relevant entitlements.

Some software products provide a mechanism for accessing software updates through the product
interface. Review your product documentation to identify the recommended software update method.

To subscribe to eNewsletters and alerts:

https://asp.arubanetworks.com/notifications/subscriptions (requires an active Aruba Support Portal
(ASP) account to manage subscriptions). Security notices are viewable without an ASP account.

Warranty Information
To view warranty information for your product, go to https://www.arubanetworks.com/support-
services/product-warranties/.

Regulatory Information
To view the regulatory information for your product, view the Safety and Compliance Information for
Server, Storage, Power, Networking, and Rack Products, available at https://www.hpe.com/support/Safety-
Compliance-EnterpriseProducts

Support and Other Resources | 21

| Additional | regulatory | information |
| ---------- | ---------- | ----------- |
Arubaiscommittedtoprovidingourcustomerswithinformationaboutthechemicalsubstancesinour
productsasneededtocomplywithlegalrequirements,environmentaldata(companyprograms,
productrecycling,energyefficiency),andsafetyinformationandcompliancedata,(RoHSandWEEE).For
moreinformation,seehttps://www.arubanetworks.com/company/about-us/environmental-citizenship/.
| Documentation |     | Feedback |
| ------------- | --- | -------- |
Arubaiscommittedtoprovidingdocumentationthatmeetsyourneeds.Tohelpusimprovethe
documentation,sendanyerrors,suggestions,orcommentstoDocumentationFeedback(docsfeedback-
switching@hpe.com).Whensubmittingyourfeedback,includethedocumenttitle,partnumber,edition,
andpublicationdatelocatedonthefrontcoverofthedocument.Foronlinehelpcontent,includethe
productname,productversion,helpedition,andpublicationdatelocatedonthelegalnoticespage.
22
| AOS-CX10.11CoPPGuide| | (4100i,6000,6100Switches) |     |
| --------------------- | ------------------------- | --- |