AOS-CX 10.10 CoPP Guide

6200, 6300, 6400 Switch Series

Published: June 2022
Edition: 1

Copyright Information

© Copyright 2022 Hewlett Packard Enterprise Development LP.

Open Source Code

This product includes code licensed under the GNU General Public License, the GNU Lesser General Public
License, and/or certain other open source licenses. A complete machine-readable copy of the source code
corresponding to such code is available upon request. This offer is valid to anyone in receipt of this
information and shall expire three years following the date of the final distribution of this product version
by Hewlett Packard Enterprise Company. To obtain such source code, send a check or money order in the
amount of US $10.00 to:

Hewlett Packard Enterprise Company
6280 America Center Drive
San Jose, CA 95002
USA

Notices

The information contained herein is subject to change without notice. The only warranties for Hewlett
Packard Enterprise products and services are set forth in the express warranty statements accompanying
such products and services. Nothing herein should be construed as constituting an additional warranty.
Hewlett Packard Enterprise shall not be liable for technical or editorial errors or omissions contained herein.

Confidential computer software. Valid license from Hewlett Packard Enterprise required for possession, use,
or copying. Consistent with FAR 12.211 and 12.212, Commercial Computer Software, Computer Software
Documentation, and Technical Data for Commercial Items are licensed to the U.S. Government under
vendor's standard commercial license.

Links to third-party websites take you outside the Hewlett Packard Enterprise website. Hewlett Packard
Enterprise has no control over and is not responsible for information outside the Hewlett Packard
Enterprise website.

| 2

Contents
Contents
| Contents                            |                                |          |           | 3   |
| ----------------------------------- | ------------------------------ | -------- | --------- | --- |
| About                               | this                           | document |           | 4   |
| Applicableproducts                  |                                |          |           | 4   |
| Latestversionavailableonline        |                                |          |           | 4   |
| Commandsyntaxnotationconventions    |                                |          |           | 4   |
| Abouttheexamples                    |                                |          |           | 5   |
| Identifyingswitchportsandinterfaces |                                |          |           | 5   |
| Identifyingmodularswitchcomponents  |                                |          |           | 6   |
| Control                             | Plane                          | Policing | (CoPP)    | 7   |
| Overview                            |                                |          |           | 7   |
| ConfiguringCoPP                     |                                |          |           | 7   |
|                                     | Example                        |          |           | 7   |
| Actualratesinhardware               |                                |          |           | 8   |
| CoPPcommands                        |                                |          |           | 8   |
|                                     | Classesoftraffic               |          |           | 8   |
|                                     | applycopp-policy               |          |           | 10  |
|                                     | class                          |          |           | 11  |
|                                     | clearcopp-policystatistics     |          |           | 12  |
|                                     | copp-policy                    |          |           | 13  |
|                                     | default-class                  |          |           | 14  |
|                                     | resetcopp-policy               |          |           | 15  |
|                                     | showcopp-policy                |          |           | 16  |
|                                     | showcopp-policyfactory-default |          |           | 18  |
|                                     | showcopp-policystatistics      |          |           | 20  |
|                                     | showtechcopp                   |          |           | 21  |
| Support                             | and                            | Other    | Resources | 23  |
| AccessingArubaSupport               |                                |          |           | 23  |
| AccessingUpdates                    |                                |          |           | 24  |
|                                     | ArubaSupportPortal             |          |           | 24  |
|                                     | MyNetworking                   |          |           | 24  |
| WarrantyInformation                 |                                |          |           | 24  |
| RegulatoryInformation               |                                |          |           | 24  |
| DocumentationFeedback               |                                |          |           | 25  |
3
AOS-CX10.10CoPPGuide| (6200,6300,6400Switches)

Chapter 1

About this document

About this document

This document describes features of the AOS-CX network operating system. It is intended for administrators
responsible for installing, configuring, and managing Aruba switches on a network.

Applicable products
This document applies to the following products:

n Aruba 6200 Switch Series (JL724A, JL725A, JL726A, JL727A, JL728A)

n Aruba 6300 Switch Series (JL658A, JL659A, JL660A, JL661A, JL662A, JL663A, JL664A, JL665A, JL666A,

JL667A, JL668A, JL762A, R8S89A, R8S90A, R8S91A, R8S92A)

n Aruba 6400 Switch Series (JL762A, R0X31A, R0X38B, R0X39B, R0X40B, R0X41A, R0X42A, R0X43A,

R0X44A, R0X45A, R0X26A, R0X27A, JL741A)

Latest version available online
Updates to this document can occur after initial publication. For the latest versions of product
documentation, see the links provided in Support and Other Resources.

Command syntax notation conventions

Convention

Usage

example-text

Identifies commands and their options and operands, code examples,
filenames, pathnames, and output displayed in a command window. Items that
appear like the example text in the previous column are to be entered exactly
as shown and are required unless enclosed in brackets ([ ]).

example-text

In code and screen examples, indicates text entered by a user.

Any of the following:
n <example-text>
n <example-text>
n example-text

n example-text

|

Identifies a placeholder—such as a parameter or a variable—that you must
substitute with an actual value in a command or in code:

n For output formats where italic text cannot be displayed, variables are
enclosed in angle brackets (< >). Substitute the text—including the
enclosing angle brackets—with an actual value.

n For output formats where italic text can be displayed, variables might

or might not be enclosed in angle brackets. Substitute the text
including the enclosing angle brackets, if any, with an actual value.

Vertical bar. A logical OR that separates multiple items from which you can
choose only one.
Any spaces that are on either side of the vertical bar are included for
readability and are not a required part of the command syntax.

AOS-CX 10.10 CoPP Guide | (6200, 6300, 6400 Switches)

4

Convention

Usage

{ }

[ ]

… or

...

Braces. Indicates that at least one of the enclosed items is required.

Brackets. Indicates that the enclosed item or items are optional.

Ellipsis:

n In code and screen examples, a vertical or horizontal ellipsis indicates an

omission of information.

n In syntax using brackets and braces, an ellipsis indicates items that can be

repeated. When an item followed by ellipses is enclosed in brackets, zero

or more items can be specified.

About the examples
Examples in this document are representative and might not match your particular switch or environment.

The slot and port numbers in this document are for illustration only and might be unavailable on your
switch.

Understanding the CLI prompts

When illustrating the prompts in the command line interface (CLI), this document uses the generic term
switch, instead of the host name of the switch. For example:
switch>

The CLI prompt indicates the current command context. For example:
switch>

Indicates the operator command context.

switch#

Indicates the manager command context.

switch(CONTEXT-NAME)#

Indicates the configuration context for a feature. For example:

switch(config-if)#

Identifies the interface context.

Variable information in CLI prompts

In certain configuration contexts, the prompt may include variable information. For example, when in the
VLAN configuration context, a VLAN number appears in the prompt:
switch(config-vlan-100)#

When referring to this context, this document uses the syntax:
switch(config-vlan-<VLAN-ID>)#

Where <VLAN-ID> is a variable representing the VLAN number.

Identifying switch ports and interfaces
Physical ports on the switch and their corresponding logical software interfaces are identified using the
format:
member/slot/port

On the 6200 Switch Series

About this document | 5

n member: Member number of the switch in a Virtual Switching Framework (VSF) stack. Range: 1 to 8. The

primary switch is always member 1. If the switch is not a member of a VSF stack, then member is 1.

n slot: Always 1. This is not a modular switch, so there are no slots.

n port: Physical number of a port on the switch.

For example, the logical interface 1/1/4 in software is associated with physical port 4 in slot 1 on member 1.

On the 6300 Switch Series

n member: Member number of the switch in a Virtual Switching Framework (VSF) stack. Range: 1 to 10. The

primary switch is always member 1. If the switch is not a member of a VSF stack, then member is 1.

n slot: Always 1. This is not a modular switch, so there are no slots.

n port: Physical number of a port on the switch.

For example, the logical interface 1/1/4 in software is associated with physical port 4 on member 1.

On the 6400 Switch Series

n member: Always 1. VSF is not supported on this switch.

n slot: Specifies physical location of a module in the switch chassis.

o Management modules are on the front of the switch in slots 1/1 and 1/2.

o Line modules are on the front of the switch starting in slot 1/3.

n port: Physical number of a port on a line module.

For example, the logical interface 1/3/4 in software is associated with physical port 4 in slot 3 on member 1.

Identifying modular switch components

n Power supplies are on the front of the switch behind the bezel above the management modules. Power

supplies are labeled in software in the format: member/power supply:

o member: 1.

o power supply: 1 to 4.

n Fans are on the rear of the switch and are labeled in software as: member/tray/fan:

o member: 1.

o tray: 1 to 4.

o fan: 1 to 4.

n Fabric modules are not labeled on the switch but are labeled in software in the format: member/module:

o member: 1.

o member: 1 or 2.

n The display module on the rear of the switch is not labeled with a member or slot number.

AOS-CX 10.10 CoPP Guide | (6200, 6300, 6400 Switches)

6

Control Plane Policing (CoPP)

Chapter 2

Control Plane Policing (CoPP)

Overview
CoPP provides a way for administrators to protect the management processor on the switch from high
packet loads (generated by malicious or nonmalicious sources) that might interfere with its ability to keep
data plane traffic flowing. For example, a denial of service attack can result in excessive traffic that would
slow down the management processor and negatively affect switch throughput.

A CoPP policy is composed of one or more classes. Each class defines one or more target protocols and how
their traffic is managed. Every policy also has a default class to regulate packets that do not match any other
class. The following actions can be applied for all packets matching a class:

n Drop the packets. (Excluding the default class.)

n Set the processing priority in the range 0 to 6 (0 - highest priority and 6 - lowest priority).

n Set the maximum data rate in packets per second (pps) at which each line module can send packets to the

management processor.

n Set the maximum burst size in packets at which each line module can send packets to the management

processor.

Up to 32 CoPP policies can be defined, but only one can be active on the switch at a time.

A CoPP policy must always be active on the switch. By default, the switch has a CoPP policy named default
which is automatically applied at first boot.

When a line module is hot-swapped or a new line module comes up after boot on a 6400 switch, the CoPP
policy that is actively applied to the switch will be applied.

When the switch is rebooted, the CoPP policy that was actively applied to the switch before the reboot
occurred will be applied if it was saved to the startup configuration with the copy running-config startup-
config command.

For GRE tunneled traffic, CoPP policies match on the payload.

CoPP policies do not regulate traffic received from the Out-of-Band-Management (OOBM) Ethernet port.

Configuring CoPP

Procedure

1. Configure the default CoPP policy, edit an existing policy, or create a policy with the command copp-

policy.

2. Add, edit, or remove classes in the policy with the command class.

3.

If the policy is not the active policy on the switch, apply it with the command apply copp-policy.
(Changes made to an active policy take effect immediately and do not need to be applied.)

4. Review the CoPP policy configuration settings with the command show copp-policy.

Example

AOS-CX 10.10 CoPP Guide | (6200, 6300, 6400 Switches)

7

Thisexamplecreatesthefollowingconfiguration:
DefinesanewpolicynamedMy_CoppPolicy.
n
n Addstwoclassestothepolicy.
n Activatesthepolicy.
n Displayspolicyconfigurationsettings.
| switch(config)#      |      | copp-policy |       | My_CoppPolicy |               |           |      |            |          |
| -------------------- | ---- | ----------- | ----- | ------------- | ------------- | --------- | ---- | ---------- | -------- |
| switch(config-copp)# |      |             | class | igmp          | priority      | 6 rate    | 5000 | burst 60   |          |
| switch(config-copp)# |      |             | class | lacp          | priority      | 2 rate    | 2000 | burst 2050 |          |
| switch(config-copp)# |      |             | exit  |               |               |           |      |            |          |
| switch(config)#      |      | apply       |       | copp-policy   | My_CoppPolicy |           |      |            |          |
| switch(config)#      |      | exit        |       |               |               |           |      |            |          |
| switch#              | show | copp-policy |       | My_CoppPolicy |               |           |      |            |          |
| class                |      |             |       | drop priority | rate          | pps burst | pkts | hardware   | rate pps |
--------------------- ---- -------- -------- ---------- -----------------
| igmp    |       |     |          | 6   | 5000 | 60   |     | 5000 |     |
| ------- | ----- | --- | -------- | --- | ---- | ---- | --- | ---- | --- |
| lacp    |       |     |          | 2   | 2000 | 2050 |     | 2000 |     |
| default |       |     |          | 1   | 6000 | 70   |     | 6000 |     |
| Actual  | rates | in  | hardware |     |      |      |     |      |     |
Currently,theactualrateinhardwareisdeterminedbyamappingbasedontheconfiguredrate,shownby
thefollowingtableofthefirstnineactualrates.
| | Configured |     | Rate (pps) | |   | Actual | Rate in Hardware | (pps) |     | |   |     |
| ------------ | --- | ---------- | --- | ------ | ---------------- | ----- | --- | --- | --- |
|-----------------------|-------------------------------|
| | 25-49   |     |     | |   | 25  |     |     |     | |   |     |
| --------- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| | 50-74   |     |     | |   | 50  |     |     |     | |   |     |
| | 75-99   |     |     | |   | 75  |     |     |     | |   |     |
| | 100-124 |     |     | |   | 100 |     |     |     | |   |     |
| | 125-149 |     |     | |   | 125 |     |     |     | |   |     |
| | 150-174 |     |     | |   | 150 |     |     |     | |   |     |
| | 175-199 |     |     | |   | 175 |     |     |     | |   |     |
| | 200-224 |     |     | |   | 200 |     |     |     | |   |     |
| | 225-249 |     |     | |   | 225 |     |     |     | |   |     |
Theprecedingtableshowsthefirstnineactualratesavailableinhardware.Higherratesareavailable.The
'show copp-policy statistics class <CLASS>'commandcanbeusedtoshowtheactualratein
hardwareforaspecificclass.The'show copp-policy <NAME>'commandcanbeusedtoshowtheactual
ratesforallclassesconfiguredinaspecificCoPPpolicy,ifthepolicyisactivelyapplied.
| CoPP    | commands |         |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |
| ------- | -------- | ------- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| Classes | of       | traffic |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |
Thedifferentclassesoftrafficthatcanbeindividuallyconfiguredare:
n acl-logging:AccessControlListloggingpackets.
n arp-broadcast:AddressResolutionProtocolpacketswithabroadcastdestinationMACaddress.
n arp-protect:AddressResolutionProtocolpacketsinterceptedandinspectedforARPprotection.
n arp-unicast:AddressResolutionProtocolpacketswithaswitchsystemdestinationMACaddress.
bfd-control:BidirectionalForwardingDetection(BFD)controlpacketswithadestinationIPaddress
n
ownedbytheswitch.
ControlPlanePolicing(CoPP)|8

The bfd-control class is not supported for 6200 switch.

n bgp: Border Gateway Protocol packets with a destination IPv4 or IPv6 address owned by the switch.

The bgp class is not supported for 6200 switch.

n captive-portal: Packets intercepted in support of the Captive Portal feature.

n dhcp: Dynamic Host Configuration Protocol packets. Also includes snooped DHCP packets if DHCP

snooping is enabled.

n erps: Ethernet Ring Protection Switching control packets with the destination MAC address

01:19:a7:00:00:XX, where XX can be any value.

n icmp-broadcast-ipv4: Internet Control Message Protocol packets with a broadcast or multicast

destination IPv4 address.

n icmp-multicast-ipv6: Internet Control Message Protocol packets with a well-known multicast

destination IPv6 address.

n icmp-security-ipv6: IPv6 Internet Control Message Protocol packets intercepted and inspected.

n icmp-unicast-ipv4: Internet Control Message Protocol packets with a destination IPv4 address owned

by the switch

n icmp-unicast-ipv6: Internet Control Message Protocol packets with a destination IPv6 address owned

by the switch.

n ieee-8021x: IEEE 802.1X protocol packets with EtherType 0x0888E.

n igmp: Internet Group Management Protocol packets.

n ip-exceptions: Routable packets that would exceed the MTU for the egress interface, packets that

trigger ICMP redirects, and packets with TTL/hop_limit=1 that are discarded when routing through the
switch.

n ip-lockdown: Packets denied and logged due to violation of allowed "IP address/VLAN/port/MAC

address" association.

n ip-tracker: Track packets received for client IP address tracking.

The ip-tracker class is not supported for 6300 and 6400 switches.

n ipsec: Internet Protocol Security IPv4 or IPv6, unicast or configured multicast. All IPsec traffic received

by the CPU will be regulated by the ipsec class regardless of the encapsulated protocol.

n ipv4-options: Unicast IPv4 packets including option headers.

n lacp: Link Aggregation Control Protocol packets with the destination MAC address 01:80:c2:00:00:02.

n lldp: Link Layer Discovery Protocol packets with the destination MAC address 01:80:c2:00:00:0e.

n loop-protect: Loop Protection packets with the destination MAC address 09:00:09:09:13:a6.

n mac-lockout: Packets denied and logged due to locked-out MAC address.

n manageability: Unicast IP packets addressed to the switch for specific protocols that do not have a

dedicated CoPP class like HTTP, SSH, RADIUS.

n mirror-to-cpu: Packets from mirroring session configured to deliver to the console.

n mld: Multicast Listener Discovery packets of type V1 or V2 with an IPv6 address of FF00::/8, FF02::16 or

FF02::2.

AOS-CX 10.10 CoPP Guide | (6200, 6300, 6400 Switches)

9

n mvrp: Multiple VLAN Registration Protocol packets with the destination MAC address 01:80:c2:00:00:20

or 01:80:c2:00:00:21

n ntp: Network Time Protocol packets with a destination IP address owned by the switch.

n ospf-multicast: Open Shortest Path First packets with the multicast destination IPv4 address 224.0.0.5

or 224.0.0.6, or IPv6 address FF02::5 or FF02::6.

n ospf-unicast: Open Shortest Path First packets with a local destination IPv4 address or IPv6 address.

n pim: Protocol Independent Multicast packets with the destination IPv4 address 224.0.0.13 or IPv6

address FF02::D, or with a destination IP address owned by the switch.

n secure-learn: Packets intercepted and inspected to see if source MAC address is allowed on the port.

n sflow: Packet headers sampled by the switch that will be sent to the sFlow collector.

n stp: Spanning Tree Protocol (STP) packets with the destination MAC address 01:80:c2:00:00:00 or Per-

VLAN Spanning Tree (PVST) packets with the destination MAC address 01:00:0c:cc:cc:cd.

n udld: Unidirectional Link Detection packets with the destination MAC address 01:00:0c:cc:cc:cc or

00:e0:52:00:00:00, or Cisco Discovery Protocol packets with the destination MAC address
01:00:0c:cc:cc:cc.

n unknown-multicast: Packets with an unknown multicast destination IP address.

n unresolved-ip-unicast: Packets to be software forwarded by the management processor.

n vrrp: Virtual Router Redundancy Protocol packets with the destination IPv4 address 224.0.0.18 or IPv6

address FF02::12, or VSX-Keepalive packets.

To regulate any other traffic destined for the CPU, every CoPP policy has a class named default that can
also be configured to regulate other traffic to the CPU or prevent other traffic from being delivered.

All IPsec traffic received by the CPU will be regulated by the ipsec class regardless of the encapsulated protocol.

When ARP protection is enabled on the system, all ARP traffic will be regulated by the arp-protect class,
regardless of the ARP destination and configuration of arp-broadcast or arp-unicast CoPP classes.

Packets for each of the CoPP classes above may have arrived through a tunnel, if tunneling was enabled.

apply copp-policy
apply copp-policy { <NAME> | default }
no apply copp-policy <NAME>

Description

Applies a CoPP policy to the switch, replacing the policy that is in effect. There may be a brief interruption in
traffic flow to the management processor while the switch implements the change.

Enter the no apply copp-policy <NAME> command with the name of a CoPP policy to unapply a CoPP
policy and apply the default CoPP policy. This will only take effect if the specified policy is actively applied.
Since there must always be a CoPP policy applied, this command effectively attempts to replace the applied
CoPP policy with the default CoPP policy. The default CoPP policy cannot be unapplied using this command.

Parameter

<NAME>

default

Description

Specifies the name of the policy to apply. Length: 1 to 64
characters.

Applies the default policy.

Control Plane Policing (CoPP) | 10

Usage
Ifthenewpolicycannotbeapplied(forexample,duetoalackofhardwareresources),thepreviouspolicy
remainsineffect.Usetheshow copp-policycommandtodeterminewhichpolicyisineffect.
Examples
ApplyingapolicynamedMy_CoppPolicy:
| switch(config)# | apply copp-policy | My_CoppPolicy |
| --------------- | ----------------- | ------------- |
Applyingthedefaultpolicy:
| switch(config)# | apply copp-policy | default |
| --------------- | ----------------- | ------- |
UnapplyingapolicynamedMy_CoppPolicy:
| switch(config)# | no apply copp-policy | My_CoppPolicy |
| --------------- | -------------------- | ------------- |
CommandHistory
| Release        |     | Modification |
| -------------- | --- | ------------ |
| 10.07orearlier |     | --           |
CommandInformation
| Platforms | Commandcontext | Authority |
| --------- | -------------- | --------- |
Allplatforms config Administratorsorlocalusergroupmemberswithexecutionrights
forthiscommand.
class
class <CLASS> {drop | priority <PRIORITY> rate <RATE> [burst <BURST>]}
no class <CLASS> {drop | priority <PRIORITY> rate <RATE> [burst <BURST>]}
Description
AddsaclasstoaCoPPpolicy.Iftheclassexists,theexistingclassismodified.Changesmadetoanactive
(applied)policytakeeffectimmediately.
Whenaddingormodifyingaclassinanactivepolicy,CoPPimmediatelyactivatesthechangeontheswitch.
Incaseswhereinsufficienthardwareresourcesexisttosupportaclassoritsaction,CoPPfailstoactivatethe
changedclassontheswitch.Whenthisfailureoccurs,theactiveconfigurationontheswitchwillbeoutof
syncwithitsdefinition.Todiagnoseandremedythissituation:
n Usetheshow copp-policycommandtodeterminewhichclassesareoutofsyncbetweentheactive
policyanditsdefinition.
n Usethereset copp-policycommandtosynchronizetheactivepolicywithitsdefinition.This
synchronizationchangestheclassesinthedefinitiontomatchtheclassesintheactivepolicy.
11
| AOS-CX10.10CoPPGuide| | (6200,6300,6400Switches) |     |
| --------------------- | ------------------------ | --- |

Thenoformofthiscommandremovestheconfigurationfortheclass.Trafficfortheclasswillbeprioritized
andregulatedusingthefactorydefaultconfigurationfortheclass.Usetheshow copp-policy factory-
defaultcommandtodisplaythefactorydefaultCoPPpolicy.Tostopaclassoftrafficfromreachingthe
processor,settheclassactiontodrop.
| Parameter |     | Description |     |
| --------- | --- | ----------- | --- |
<CLASS>
Specifiestheclasstoaddoredit.
| drop                |     | Droppacketsmatchingtheselectedclass. |     |
| ------------------- | --- | ------------------------------------ | --- |
| priority <PRIORITY> |     |                                      |     |
Specifiesthepriorityforpacketsmatchingtheselectedclass.
Range:0to6.
rate <RATE> Specifiesthemaximumrate,inpacketspersecond(pps),for
packetsmatchingtheselectedclass.Range:25to99999.
burst <BURST> Specifiesthemaximumburstsize,inpackets,forpackets
matchingtheselectedclass.Range:1to9999.
Examples
AddingaclasstohandleLACPtrafficwithpriorityof2andrateof2000:
| switch(config-copp)# | class lacp | priority | 2 rate 2000 |
| -------------------- | ---------- | -------- | ----------- |
ModifyingtheclasstodropLLDPpackets:
| switch(config-copp)# | class lldp | drop |     |
| -------------------- | ---------- | ---- | --- |
RemovingtheclassthathandlesLLDPpackets.
| switch(config-copp)# | no class | lldp |     |
| -------------------- | -------- | ---- | --- |
CommandHistory
| Release        |     | Modification |     |
| -------------- | --- | ------------ | --- |
| 10.07orearlier |     | --           |     |
CommandInformation
| Platforms | Commandcontext | Authority |     |
| --------- | -------------- | --------- | --- |
Allplatforms config-copp Administratorsorlocalusergroupmemberswithexecutionrights
forthiscommand.
clear copp-policy statistics
| clear copp-policy | statistics |     |     |
| ----------------- | ---------- | --- | --- |
Description
ControlPlanePolicing(CoPP)|12

ResetsstatisticsforallCoPPclassestozero.
Examples
Displayingandthenresettingstatisticsforallclassesintheactivepolicy:
| switch#    |     | show copp-policy |             | statistics |            |     |     |
| ---------- | --- | ---------------- | ----------- | ---------- | ---------- | --- | --- |
| Statistics |     | for              | CoPP policy |            | 'default': |     |     |
Totals:
|            | packets       | passed            | :           | 1000       |            | packets dropped | : 1500 |
| ---------- | ------------- | ----------------- | ----------- | ---------- | ---------- | --------------- | ------ |
| Class:     | default       |                   |             |            |            |                 |        |
|            | packets       | passed            | :           | 400        |            | packets dropped | : 600  |
| Class:     | acl-logging   |                   |             |            |            |                 |        |
|            | packets       | passed            | :           | 100        |            | packets dropped | : 100  |
| Class:     | arp-broadcast |                   |             |            |            |                 |        |
|            | packets       | passed            | :           | 500        |            | packets dropped | : 800  |
|            |               | <--OUTPUT         | OMITTED     | FOR        | BREVITY--> |                 |        |
| switch#    |               | clear copp-policy |             | statistics |            |                 |        |
| switch#    |               | show copp-policy  |             | statistics |            |                 |        |
| Statistics |               | for               | CoPP policy |            | 'default': |                 |        |
Totals:
|        | packets       | passed | :   | 0   |     | packets dropped | : 0 |
| ------ | ------------- | ------ | --- | --- | --- | --------------- | --- |
| Class: | default       |        |     |     |     |                 |     |
|        | packets       | passed | :   | 0   |     | packets dropped | : 0 |
| Class: | acl-logging   |        |     |     |     |                 |     |
|        | packets       | passed | :   | 0   |     | packets dropped | : 0 |
| Class: | arp-broadcast |        |     |     |     |                 |     |
|        | packets       | passed | :   | 0   |     | packets dropped | : 0 |
CommandHistory
| Release        |     |     |     |     | Modification |     |     |
| -------------- | --- | --- | --- | --- | ------------ | --- | --- |
| 10.07orearlier |     |     |     |     | --           |     |     |
CommandInformation
| Platforms |     | Commandcontext |     |     | Authority |     |     |
| --------- | --- | -------------- | --- | --- | --------- | --- | --- |
Allplatforms Operator(>)orManager OperatorsorAdministratorsorlocalusergroupmemberswith
executionrightsforthiscommand.Operatorscanexecutethis
(#)
commandfromtheoperatorcontext(>)only.
copp-policy
| copp-policy    |     | {<NAME> | | default |     | [revert]} |     |     |
| -------------- | --- | ------- | --------- | --- | --------- | --- | --- |
| no copp-policy |     | <NAME>  |           |     |           |     |     |
Description
CreatesaCoPPpolicyandswitchestotheconfig-coppcontextforthepolicy.Or,ifthespecifiedpolicy
exists,switchestotheconfig-coppcontextforthepolicy.Apredefinedpolicy,nameddefault,contains
factorydefaultclassesandisappliedtotheswitchatfirststartup.Thispolicycannotbedeleted,butits
configurationcanbechanged.
ThenoformofthiscommandremovesaCoPPpolicy.Ifapolicyisactive(applied),itcannotberemoved.It
mustbereplacedwithanotherpolicybeforeitcanberemoved.
13
| AOS-CX10.10CoPPGuide| |     | (6200,6300,6400Switches) |     |     |     |     |     |
| --------------------- | --- | ------------------------ | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |

| Parameter |     |     |     | Description                                         |     |
| --------- | --- | --- | --- | --------------------------------------------------- | --- |
| <NAME>    |     |     |     | Specifiesthenameofthepolicytoaddoredit.Length:1to64 |     |
characters.Thenamemustnotbeasubstringofanyofthe
followingreservedwords:default,factory-default,commands,
configuration,orstatistics.
| default |     |     |     | SpecifiesthedefaultCoPPpolicy.Usethisdefaultpolicyto |     |
| ------- | --- | --- | --- | ---------------------------------------------------- | --- |
configurethedefaultpolicy.
| revert |     |     |     | SetsthedefaultCoPPpolicytoitsfactorysettings. |     |
| ------ | --- | --- | --- | --------------------------------------------- | --- |
Examples
CreatingapolicynamedMy_CoppPolicy:
| switch(config)# |     | copp-policy | My_CoppPolicy |     |     |
| --------------- | --- | ----------- | ------------- | --- | --- |
switch(config-copp)#
RemovingapolicynamedMy_CoppPolicy:
| switch(config)# |     | no copp-policy |     | My_CoppPolicy |     |
| --------------- | --- | -------------- | --- | ------------- | --- |
Settingthedefaultpolicytoitsfactorysettings:
| switch(config)# |     | copp-policy | default | revert |     |
| --------------- | --- | ----------- | ------- | ------ | --- |
UnapplyingthepolicynamedMy_CoppPolicy:
| switch(config)# |     | no apply | copp-policy | My_CoppPolicy |     |
| --------------- | --- | -------- | ----------- | ------------- | --- |
CommandHistory
| Release        |     |     |     | Modification |     |
| -------------- | --- | --- | --- | ------------ | --- |
| 10.07orearlier |     |     |     | --           |     |
CommandInformation
| Platforms | Commandcontext |     |     | Authority |     |
| --------- | -------------- | --- | --- | --------- | --- |
config
Allplatforms Administratorsorlocalusergroupmemberswithexecutionrights
forthiscommand.
default-class
| default-class | priority | <PRIORITY> | rate | <RATE> | [burst <BURST>] |
| ------------- | -------- | ---------- | ---- | ------ | --------------- |
Description
ControlPlanePolicing(CoPP)|14

ConfiguresthedefaultclassthatisautomaticallydefinedforallCoPPpolicies.Thedefaultclasscannotbe
removed,butitsconfigurationcanbechanged.Thedefaultclassisappliedtotrafficthatdoesnotmatch
anyotherclassdefinedforapolicy.
| Parameter |     |     | Description |     |
| --------- | --- | --- | ----------- | --- |
priority <PRIORITY> Specifiesthepriorityforpacketsmatchingtheselectedclass.
Range:0to6.
rate <RATE> Specifiesthemaximumrate,inpacketspersecond(pps),for
packetsmatchingtheselectedclass.Range:25to99999.
burst <BURST> Specifiesthemaximumburstsize,inpackets,forpackets
matchingtheselectedclass.Range:1to9999.
Example
Settingthedefaultclasstoapriorityof2andrateof2000:
| switch(config-copp)# |     | default-class | priority | 2 rate 2000 |
| -------------------- | --- | ------------- | -------- | ----------- |
CommandHistory
| Release        |     |     | Modification |     |
| -------------- | --- | --- | ------------ | --- |
| 10.07orearlier |     |     | --           |     |
CommandInformation
| Platforms | Commandcontext |     | Authority |     |
| --------- | -------------- | --- | --------- | --- |
Allplatforms config-copp Administratorsorlocalusergroupmemberswithexecutionrights
forthiscommand.
reset copp-policy
| reset copp-policy | { <NAME> | | default | }   |     |
| ----------------- | -------- | --------- | --- | --- |
Description
ResetsanactiveCoPPpolicytomatchthesettingsthatarecurrentlyineffectfortheactivepolicyonthe
switch.Changesmadetotheactivepolicythatcouldnotbeactivatedareremovedfromtheactivepolicy.
WhentheswitchfailstoaddormodifyaclassinanactiveCoPPpolicy,itispossibletheactivepolicysettings
ontheswitchmaybeoutofsyncwiththosedefinedinthepolicy.
| Parameter |     |     | Description                                     |     |
| --------- | --- | --- | ----------------------------------------------- | --- |
| <NAME>    |     |     | Specifiesthenameofthepolicytoreset.Length:1to64 |     |
characters.
| default |     |     | Resetsthedefaultpolicytomatchitsactivesettings. |     |
| ------- | --- | --- | ----------------------------------------------- | --- |
Examples
15
| AOS-CX10.10CoPPGuide| | (6200,6300,6400Switches) |     |     |     |
| --------------------- | ------------------------ | --- | --- | --- |

ResettingapolicynamedMy_CoppPolicy:
| switch# | show copp-policy |      | My_CoppPolicy |      |           |      |          |          |
| ------- | ---------------- | ---- | ------------- | ---- | --------- | ---- | -------- | -------- |
| class   |                  | drop | priority      | rate | pps burst | pkts | hardware | rate pps |
--------------------- ---- -------- -------- ---------- -----------------
| igmp    |     |     | 6   | 5000 | 60   |     | 5000 |     |
| ------- | --- | --- | --- | ---- | ---- | --- | ---- | --- |
| lacp    |     |     | 2   | 2000 | 2050 |     | 2000 |     |
| default |     |     | 1   | 6000 | 70   |     | 6000 |     |
switch#
config terminal
| switch(config)#      | copp-policy |       | My_CoppPolicy    |          |               |       |          |          |
| -------------------- | ----------- | ----- | ---------------- | -------- | ------------- | ----- | -------- | -------- |
| switch(config-copp)# |             | class | stp              | priority | 4 rate 4000   | burst | 60       |          |
| switch(config-copp)# |             | do    | show copp-policy |          | My_CoppPolicy |       |          |          |
| class                |             | drop  | priority         | rate     | pps burst     | pkts  | hardware | rate pps |
--------------------- ---- -------- -------- ---------- -----------------
| igmp    |     |     | 6   | 5000 | 60   |     | 5000 |     |
| ------- | --- | --- | --- | ---- | ---- | --- | ---- | --- |
| lacp    |     |     | 2   | 2000 | 2050 |     | 2000 |     |
| default |     |     | 1   | 6000 | 70   |     | 6000 |     |
% Warning: user-specified classes in CoPP policy My_CoppPolicy do not match
| active | configuration. |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |
| ------ | -------------- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
switch(config-copp)# do show copp-policy My_CoppPolicy configuration
| class                 |     | drop | priority | rate     | pps burst  | pkts | applied |     |
| --------------------- | --- | ---- | -------- | -------- | ---------- | ---- | ------- | --- |
| --------------------- |     | ---- | -------- | -------- | ---------- |      | ------- |     |
| igmp                  |     |      | 6        | 5000     | 60         |      | yes     |     |
| lacp                  |     |      | 2        | 2000     | 2050       |      | yes     |     |
| stp                   |     |      | 4        | 4000     | 60         |      | no      |     |
| default               |     |      | 1        | 6000     | 70         |      | yes     |     |
% Warning: user-specified classes in CoPP policy My_CoppPolicy do not match
| active | configuration. |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |
| ------ | -------------- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
switch(config-copp)#
exit
| switch(config)# | reset | copp-policy |             | My_CoppPolicy |           |      |          |          |
| --------------- | ----- | ----------- | ----------- | ------------- | --------- | ---- | -------- | -------- |
| switch(config)# | do    | show        | copp-policy | My_CoppPolicy |           |      |          |          |
| class           |       | drop        | priority    | rate          | pps burst | pkts | hardware | rate pps |
--------------------- ---- -------- -------- ---------- -----------------
| igmp    |     |     | 6   | 5000 | 60   |     | 5000 |     |
| ------- | --- | --- | --- | ---- | ---- | --- | ---- | --- |
| lacp    |     |     | 2   | 2000 | 2050 |     | 2000 |     |
| default |     |     | 1   | 6000 | 70   |     | 6000 |     |
Resettingthedefaultpolicy:
switch(config)#
|     | reset | copp-policy |     | default |     |     |     |     |
| --- | ----- | ----------- | --- | ------- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
CommandHistory
| Release        |     |     |     | Modification |     |     |     |     |
| -------------- | --- | --- | --- | ------------ | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| 10.07orearlier |     |     |     | --           |     |     |     |     |
CommandInformation
| Platforms | Commandcontext |     |     | Authority |     |     |     |     |
| --------- | -------------- | --- | --- | --------- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
Allplatforms config Administratorsorlocalusergroupmemberswithexecutionrights
forthiscommand.
show copp-policy
show copp-policy [<NAME> | default] [commands] [configuration] [vsx-peer]
ControlPlanePolicing(CoPP)|16

Description

Shows CoPP policy settings for a specific CoPP policy. When entered without specifying either a name or the
default parameter, shows all the CoPP policy settings that are active on the switch and have successfully
been programmed into the hardware.

A warning is displayed if:

n The active and user-specified applications of a policy do not match.

n The active and user-specified configurations of a policy do not match.

Parameter

<NAME>

default

commands

configuration

vsx-peer

Example

Description

Specifies the name of the policy for which to display settings.
Length: 1 to 64 characters.

Displays CoPP settings for the default policy.

Displays output as CLI commands.

Displays user-specified CoPP settings and not the active settings.

Shows the output from the VSX peer switch. If the switches do not
have the VSX configuration or the ISL is down, the output from the
VSX peer switch is not displayed. This parameter is available on
switches that support VSX.

Displaying the CoPP policies defined in the configuration and the active application:

switch# show copp-policy
applied copp_policy_name
------- ----------------

My_CoppPolicy

applied default
switch#

Displaying the active configuration of all CoPP policies as CLI commands:

switch# show copp-policy commands
copp-policy My_CoppPolicy

class igmp priority 6 rate 5000 burst 60
class lacp priority 2 rate 2000 burst 2050
default-class priority 1 rate 6000 burst 70

copp-policy default

class acl-logging priority 0 rate 25 burst 3
class arp-broadcast priority 2 rate 1250 burst 1250
class arp-protect priority 2 rate 2075 burst 2075
class arp-unicast priority 3 rate 825 burst 825
class bfd-control priority 5 rate 850 burst 850

<--OUTPUT OMITTED FOR BREVITY-->

default-class priority 2 rate 4225 burst 528

apply copp-policy default
switch#

Displaying the default policy:

AOS-CX 10.10 CoPP Guide | (6200, 6300, 6400 Switches)

17

| switch# |     | show copp-policy | default |          |      |           |               |          |
| ------- | --- | ---------------- | ------- | -------- | ---- | --------- | ------------- | -------- |
| class   |     |                  | drop    | priority | rate | pps burst | pkts hardware | rate pps |
--------------------- ---- -------- -------- ---------- -----------------
| acl-logging   |           |         |     | 0          | 25   | 3    | 25   |     |
| ------------- | --------- | ------- | --- | ---------- | ---- | ---- | ---- | --- |
| arp-broadcast |           |         |     | 2          | 1250 | 1250 | 1250 |     |
| arp-protect   |           |         |     | 2          | 2075 | 2075 | 2075 |     |
| arp-unicast   |           |         |     | 3          | 825  | 825  | 825  |     |
| bfd-control   |           |         |     | 5          | 850  | 850  | 850  |     |
|               | <--OUTPUT | OMITTED | FOR | BREVITY--> |      |      |      |     |
| default       |           |         |     | 2          | 4225 | 528  | 4225 |     |
CommandHistory
| Release        |     |     |     |     | Modification |     |     |     |
| -------------- | --- | --- | --- | --- | ------------ | --- | --- | --- |
| 10.07orearlier |     |     |     |     | --           |     |     |     |
CommandInformation
| Platforms |     | Commandcontext |     |     | Authority |     |     |     |
| --------- | --- | -------------- | --- | --- | --------- | --- | --- | --- |
Allplatforms Operator(>)orManager OperatorsorAdministratorsorlocalusergroupmemberswith
executionrightsforthiscommand.Operatorscanexecutethis
(#)
commandfromtheoperatorcontext(>)only.
| show | copp-policy |                 | factory-default |            |     |            |     |     |
| ---- | ----------- | --------------- | --------------- | ---------- | --- | ---------- | --- | --- |
| show | copp-policy | factory-default |                 | [commands] |     | [vsx-peer] |     |     |
Description
Displaytheconfigurationforthefactory-defaultCoPPpolicy.
| Parameter |     |     |     |     | Description |     |     |     |
| --------- | --- | --- | --- | --- | ----------- | --- | --- | --- |
commands
DisplaysoutputasCLIcommands.
vsx-peer ShowstheoutputfromtheVSXpeerswitch.Iftheswitchesdonot
havetheVSXconfigurationortheISLisdown,theoutputfromthe
VSXpeerswitchisnotdisplayed.Thisparameterisavailableon
switchesthatsupportVSX.
Example
Displayingthefactory-defaultpolicy:
| switch#               |     | show copp-policy | factory-default |          |          |            |      |     |
| --------------------- | --- | ---------------- | --------------- | -------- | -------- | ---------- | ---- | --- |
| class                 |     |                  | drop            | priority | rate     | pps burst  | pkts |     |
| --------------------- |     |                  | ----            | -------- | -------- | ---------- |      |     |
| acl-logging           |     |                  |                 | 0        | 25       | 3          |      |     |
| arp-broadcast         |     |                  |                 | 2        | 1250     | 1250       |      |     |
| arp-protect           |     |                  |                 | 2        | 2075     | 2075       |      |     |
| arp-unicast           |     |                  |                 | 3        | 825      | 825        |      |     |
| bfd-control           |     |                  |                 | 5        | 850      | 850        |      |     |
ControlPlanePolicing(CoPP)|18

<--OUTPUT OMITTED FOR BREVITY-->

default

2

4225

528

Displaying the active configuration of My_CoppPolicy (My_CoppPolicy is applied):

switch# config terminal
switch(config)# apply copp-policy My_CoppPolicy
switch(config)# do show copp-policy My_CoppPolicy
class
drop priority rate pps burst pkts hardware rate pps
--------------------- ---- -------- -------- ---------- -----------------
igmp
lacp
default

60
2050
70

5000
2000
6000

5000
2000
6000

6
2
1

Displaying the active configuration of My_CoppPolicy as CLI commands:

switch# show copp-policy My_CoppPolicy commands
copp-policy My_CoppPolicy

class igmp priority 6 rate 5000 burst 60
class lacp priority 2 rate 2000 burst 2050
default-class priority 1 rate 6000 burst 70

apply copp-policy My_CoppPolicy

Displaying the user-specified configuration of My_CoppPolicy:

switch# show copp-policy My_CoppPolicy configuration
drop priority rate pps burst pkts applied
class
--------------------- ---- -------- -------- ---------- -------
igmp
lacp
default

60
2050
70

5000
2000
6000

yes
yes
yes

6
2
1

Displaying the user-specified configuration of My_CoppPolicy as CLI commands:

switch# show copp-policy My_CoppPolicy commands configuration
copp-policy My_CoppPolicy

class igmp priority 6 rate 5000 burst 60
class lacp priority 2 rate 2000 burst 2050
default-class priority 1 rate 6000 burst 70

apply copp-policy My_CoppPolicy

Command History

Release

10.07 or earlier

Command Information

Modification

--

AOS-CX 10.10 CoPP Guide | (6200, 6300, 6400 Switches)

19

| Platforms |     | Commandcontext |     |     |     | Authority |     |     |
| --------- | --- | -------------- | --- | --- | --- | --------- | --- | --- |
Allplatforms OperatorsorAdministratorsorlocalusergroupmemberswith
Operator(>)orManager
|     |     | (#) |     |     |     | executionrightsforthiscommand.Operatorscanexecutethis |     |     |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | ----------------------------------------------------- | --- | --- |
commandfromtheoperatorcontext(>)only.
| show | copp-policy |     |     | statistics |     |     |     |     |
| ---- | ----------- | --- | --- | ---------- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
show copp-policy statistics [class <CLASS> | default-class | non-zero] [vsx-peer]
Description
Displaysstatisticsforallclasses,asingleclass,orallclasseswithnon-zerostatisticsintheactiveCoPPpolicy.
| Parameter     |     |     |     |     |     | Description                                   |     |     |
| ------------- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --------------------------------------------- | --- | --- |
| <CLASS>       |     |     |     |     |     | Specifiestheclassforwhichtodisplaystatistics. |     |     |
| default-class |     |     |     |     |     | Displaysstatisticsforthedefaultclass.         |     |     |
non-zero Displaysstatisticsforallclasseswithnon-zerostatistics.
vsx-peer ShowstheoutputfromtheVSXpeerswitch.Iftheswitchesdonot
havetheVSXconfigurationortheISLisdown,theoutputfromthe
VSXpeerswitchisnotdisplayed.Thisparameterisavailableon
switchesthatsupportVSX.
Usage
Ifasingleclassisspecified,thepriority,rate,andburstsizethathasbeenprogrammedinhardwareforthat
classwillbeshown.
Examples
ApplyingthedefaultCoPPpolicyanddisplayingstatisticsforallclassesintheactivelyappliedpolicy:
Theratedisplayedistheactualrateinhardware.
| switch#         |     | config | terminal    |             |            |         |     |     |
| --------------- | --- | ------ | ----------- | ----------- | ---------- | ------- | --- | --- |
| switch(config)# |     |        | apply       | copp-policy |            | default |     |     |
| switch(config)# |     |        | exit        |             |            |         |     |     |
| switch#         |     | show   | copp-policy |             | statistics |         |     |     |
| Statistics      |     | for    | CoPP        | policy      | 'default': |         |     |     |
Totals:
|        | packets       | passed    |     | : 1000  |                |     | packets dropped | : 1500 |
| ------ | ------------- | --------- | --- | ------- | -------------- | --- | --------------- | ------ |
| Class: | default       |           |     |         |                |     |                 |        |
|        | packets       | passed    |     | : 400   |                |     | packets dropped | : 600  |
| Class: | acl-logging   |           |     |         |                |     |                 |        |
|        | packets       | passed    |     | : 100   |                |     | packets dropped | : 100  |
| Class: | arp-broadcast |           |     |         |                |     |                 |        |
|        | packets       | passed    |     | : 500   |                |     | packets dropped | : 800  |
|        |               | <--OUTPUT |     | OMITTED | FOR BREVITY--> |     |                 |        |
Displayingstatisticsforthedefaultclassintheactivepolicy:
ControlPlanePolicing(CoPP)|20

| switch(config)# |          |        | show    | copp-policy |            | statistics | default-class   |       |
| --------------- | -------- | ------ | ------- | ----------- | ---------- | ---------- | --------------- | ----- |
| Statistics      |          | for    | CoPP    | policy      | 'default': |            |                 |       |
| Class:          | default  |        |         |             |            |            |                 |       |
| Description:    |          |        | Default |             |            |            |                 |       |
|                 | priority |        |         |             | : 2        |            |                 |       |
|                 | rate     | (pps)  |         |             | : 4225     |            |                 |       |
|                 | burst    | size   | (pkts)  |             | : 528      |            |                 |       |
|                 | packets  | passed |         | : 400       |            |            | packets dropped | : 600 |
Displayingstatisticsfortheclassarp-broadcastintheactivelyappliedpolicy:
| switch#      |               | show   | copp-policy |            | statistics | class    | arp-broadcast   |       |
| ------------ | ------------- | ------ | ----------- | ---------- | ---------- | -------- | --------------- | ----- |
| Statistics   |               | for    | CoPP        | policy     | 'default': |          |                 |       |
| Class:       | arp-broadcast |        |             |            |            |          |                 |       |
| Description: |               |        | Address     | Resolution |            | Protocol | broadcast       |       |
|              | priority      |        |             |            | : 2        |          |                 |       |
|              | rate          | (pps)  |             |            | : 1250     |          |                 |       |
|              | burst         | size   | (pkts)      |            | : 1250     |          |                 |       |
|              | packets       | passed |             | : 500      |            |          | packets dropped | : 800 |
CommandHistory
| Release        |     |     |     |     |     | Modification |     |     |
| -------------- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | ------------ | --- | --- |
| 10.07orearlier |     |     |     |     |     | --           |     |     |
CommandInformation
| Platforms |     | Commandcontext |     |     |     | Authority |     |     |
| --------- | --- | -------------- | --- | --- | --- | --------- | --- | --- |
Allplatforms Operator(>)orManager OperatorsorAdministratorsorlocalusergroupmemberswith
executionrightsforthiscommand.Operatorscanexecutethis
(#)
commandfromtheoperatorcontext(>)only.
| show | tech      | copp |     |     |     |     |     |     |
| ---- | --------- | ---- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| show | tech copp |      |     |     |     |     |     |     |
Description
DisplaystheoutputofallshowcommandssupportedbyCoPP.
Examples
Capturingthecommandoutputintoalocalfile:
| switch# |     | show | tech | copp local-file |     |     |     |     |
| ------- | --- | ---- | ---- | --------------- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
Show Tech output stored in local-file. Please use 'copy show-tech local-file' to
| copy-out |            | this | file.     |            |     |     |     |     |
| -------- | ---------- | ---- | --------- | ---------- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| switch#  |            | copy | show-tech | local-file |     | ?   |     |     |
|          | REMOTE_URL |      | URL       | of syntax  |     |     |     |     |
21
| AOS-CX10.10CoPPGuide| |     | (6200,6300,6400Switches) |     |     |     |     |     |     |
| --------------------- | --- | ------------------------ | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |

{tftp://|sftp://USER@}{IP|HOST}[:PORT][;blocksize=VAL]/FILE
| STORAGE_URL | URL of         | syntax usb:/file |     |
| ----------- | -------------- | ---------------- | --- |
| switch#     | copy show-tech | local-file       |     |
CommandHistory
| Release        |     |     | Modification |
| -------------- | --- | --- | ------------ |
| 10.07orearlier |     |     | --           |
CommandInformation
| Platforms | Commandcontext |     | Authority |
| --------- | -------------- | --- | --------- |
Allplatforms Manager(#) Administratorsorlocalusergroupmemberswithexecutionrights
forthiscommand.
ControlPlanePolicing(CoPP)|22

Support and Other Resources

Chapter 3

Support and Other Resources

Accessing Aruba Support

Aruba Support Services

https://www.arubanetworks.com/support-services/

AOS-CX Switch Software Documentation
Portal

https://www.arubanetworks.com/techdocs/AOS-CX/help_
portal/Content/home.htm

Aruba Support Portal

https://asp.arubanetworks.com/

North America telephone

1-800-943-4526 (US & Canada Toll-Free Number)

+1-408-754-1200 (Primary - Toll Number)

+1-650-385-6582 (Backup - Toll Number - Use only when all other

numbers are not working)

International telephone

https://www.arubanetworks.com/support-services/contact-
support/

Be sure to collect the following information before contacting Support:

n Technical support registration number (if applicable)

n Product name, model or version, and serial number

n Operating system name and version

n Firmware version

n Error messages

n Product-specific reports and logs

n Add-on products or components

n Third-party products or components

Other useful sites

Other websites that can be used to find information:

https://community.arubanetworks.com/

https://www.arubanetworks.com/techdocs/AOS-CX/help_portal/Content/home.htm

Airheads social
forums and
Knowledge
Base

AOS-CX Switch
Software
Documentation
Portal

AOS-CX 10.10 CoPP Guide | (6200, 6300, 6400 Switches)

23

https://www.arubanetworks.com/techdocs/hardware/DocumentationPortal/Content/home.htm

Aruba
Hardware
Documentation
and
Translations
Portal

Aruba software

https://asp.arubanetworks.com/downloads

Software
licensing

End-of-Life
information

Aruba
Developer Hub

https://lms.arubanetworks.com/

https://www.arubanetworks.com/support-services/end-of-life/

https://developer.arubanetworks.com/

Accessing Updates
You can access updates from the Aruba Support Portal or the HPE My Networking Website.

Aruba Support Portal

https://asp.arubanetworks.com/downloads

If you are unable to find your product in the Aruba Support Portal, you may need to search My Networking,
where older networking products can be found:

My Networking

https://www.hpe.com/networking/support

To view and update your entitlements, and to link your contracts and warranties with your profile, go to the
Hewlett Packard Enterprise Support Center More Information on Access to Support Materials page:

https://support.hpe.com/portal/site/hpsc/aae/home/

Access to some updates might require product entitlement when accessed through the Hewlett Packard
Enterprise Support Center. You must have an HP Passport set up with relevant entitlements.

Some software products provide a mechanism for accessing software updates through the product
interface. Review your product documentation to identify the recommended software update method.

To subscribe to eNewsletters and alerts:

https://asp.arubanetworks.com/notifications/subscriptions (requires an active Aruba Support Portal (ASP)
account to manage subscriptions). Security notices are viewable without an ASP account.

Warranty Information
To view warranty information for your product, go to https://www.arubanetworks.com/support-
services/product-warranties/.

Regulatory Information

Support and Other Resources | 24

To view the regulatory information for your product, view the Safety and Compliance Information for Server,
Storage, Power, Networking, and Rack Products, available at https://www.hpe.com/support/Safety-
Compliance-EnterpriseProducts

Additional regulatory information

Aruba is committed to providing our customers with information about the chemical substances in our
products as needed to comply with legal requirements, environmental data (company programs, product
recycling, energy efficiency), and safety information and compliance data, (RoHS and WEEE). For more
information, see https://www.arubanetworks.com/company/about-us/environmental-citizenship/.

Documentation Feedback
Aruba is committed to providing documentation that meets your needs. To help us improve the
documentation, send any errors, suggestions, or comments to Documentation Feedback (docsfeedback-
switching@hpe.com). When submitting your feedback, include the document title, part number, edition,
and publication date located on the front cover of the document. For online help content, include the
product name, product version, help edition, and publication date located on the legal notices page.

AOS-CX 10.10 CoPP Guide | (6200, 6300, 6400 Switches)

25