AOS-CX 10.16.xxxx CoPP
Guide

(5420, 6200, 6300, 6400 Switch Series)

Published: August 2025

Version: 1

Copyright Information

© Copyright 2025 Hewlett Packard Enterprise Development LP.

This product includes code licensed under certain open source licenses which require source
compliance. The corresponding source for these components is available upon request. This offer is
valid to anyone in receipt of this information and shall expire three years following the date of the final
distribution of this product version by Hewlett Packard Enterprise Company. To obtain such source
code, please check if the code is available in the HPE Software Center at
https://myenterpriselicense.hpe.com/cwp-ui/software but, if not, send a written request for specific
software version and product for which you want the open source code. Along with the request, please
send a check or money order in the amount of US $10.00 to:

Hewlett Packard Enterprise Company
Attn: General Counsel
WW Corporate Headquarters
1701 E Mossy Oaks Rd Spring, TX 77389
United States of America.

| 2

Notices

The information contained herein is subject to change without notice. The only warranties for Hewlett
Packard Enterprise products and services are set forth in the express warranty statements
accompanying such products and services. Nothing herein should be construed as constituting an
additional warranty. Hewlett Packard Enterprise shall not be liable for technical or editorial errors or
omissions contained herein.

Confidential computer software. Valid license from Hewlett Packard Enterprise required for possession,
use, or copying. Consistent with FAR 12.211 and 12.212, Commercial Computer Software, Computer
Software Documentation, and Technical Data for Commercial Items are licensed to the U.S. Government
under vendor's standard commercial license.

Links to third-party websites take you outside the Hewlett Packard Enterprise website. Hewlett Packard
Enterprise has no control over and is not responsible for information outside the Hewlett Packard
Enterprise website.

AOS-CX 10.16.xxxx CoPP Guide | (5420, 6200, 6300, 6400 Switches)

3

Contents
| About                               | this document                  |           | 5   |
| ----------------------------------- | ------------------------------ | --------- | --- |
| Applicableproducts                  |                                |           | 5   |
| Latestversionavailableonline        |                                |           | 5   |
| Commandsyntaxnotationconventions    |                                |           | 5   |
| Abouttheexamples                    |                                |           | 6   |
| Identifyingswitchportsandinterfaces |                                |           | 7   |
| Identifyingmodularswitchcomponents  |                                |           | 7   |
| Control                             | Plane Policing                 | (CoPP)    | 9   |
| Overview                            |                                |           | 9   |
| ConfiguringCoPP                     |                                |           | 9   |
| Actualratesinhardware               |                                |           | 10  |
| CoPPcommands                        |                                |           | 10  |
|                                     | Classesoftraffic               |           | 10  |
|                                     | applycopp-policy               |           | 13  |
|                                     | class                          |           | 14  |
|                                     | clearcopp-policystatistics     |           | 15  |
|                                     | copp-policy                    |           | 16  |
|                                     | default-class                  |           | 17  |
|                                     | resetcopp-policy               |           | 18  |
|                                     | showcopp-policy                |           | 19  |
|                                     | showcopp-policyfactory-default |           | 21  |
|                                     | showcopp-policystatistics      |           | 22  |
|                                     | showtechcopp                   |           | 24  |
| Support                             | and Other                      | Resources | 25  |
| AccessingHPEArubaNetworkingSupport  |                                |           | 25  |
| AccessingUpdates                    |                                |           | 26  |
| WarrantyInformation                 |                                |           | 26  |
| RegulatoryInformation               |                                |           | 26  |
| DocumentationFeedback               |                                |           | 26  |
4
AOS-CX10.16.xxxxCoPPGuide| (5420,6200,6300,6400Switches)

Chapter 1

About this document

About this document

This document describes features of the AOS-CX network operating system. It is intended for
administrators responsible for installing, configuring, and managing HPE Aruba Networking switches on
a network.

Applicable products

This document applies to the following products:

n HPE Aruba Networking 5420 Switch Series (S0U67A, S0U55A, S0U63A, S0U64A, S0U65A, S0U75A,

S0U72A, S0U78A, S0U58A, S0U73A, S0U74A, S0U71A, S0U76A, S0U70A, S0U77A, S0U60A, S0U61A,
S0U62A, S0U66A, S0U68A)

n HPE Aruba Networking 6200 Switch Series (JL724A, JL725A, JL726A, JL727A, JL728A, R8Q67A, R8Q68A,
R8Q69A, R8Q70A, R8Q71A, R8V08A, R8V09A, R8V10A, R8V11A, R8V12A, R8Q72A, JL724B, JL725B,
JL726B, JL727B, JL728B, S0M81A, S0M82A, S0M83A, S0M84A, S0M85A, S0M86A,  S0M87A,  S0M88A,
S0M89A,  S0M90A, S0G13A, S0G14A, S0G15A, S0G16A, S0G17A)

n HPE Aruba Networking 6300 Switch Series (JL658A, JL659A, JL660A, JL661A, JL662A, JL663A, JL664A,

JL665A, JL666A, JL667A, JL668A, JL762A, R8S89A, R8S90A, R8S91A, R8S92A, S0E91A, S0X44A, S3L75A,
S3L76A, S3L77A, S4P41A,S4P42A, S4P43A, S4P44A, S4P45A, S4P46A, S4P47A, S4P48A)

n HPE Aruba Networking 6400 Switch Series (R0X31A, R0X38B, R0X38C, R0X39B, R0X39C, R0X40B,
R0X40C, R0X41A, R0X41C, R0X42A, R0X42C, R0X43A, R0X43C, R0X44A, R0X44C, R0X45A, R0X45C,
R0X26A, R0X27A, JL741A, S0E48A,S0E48A #0D1, S1T83A, S1T83A #0D1)

Latest version available online

Updates to this document can occur after initial publication. For the latest versions of product
documentation, see the links provided in Support and Other Resources.

Command syntax notation conventions

Convention

example-text

Usage

Identifies commands and their options and operands, code examples,
filenames, pathnames, and output displayed in a command window. Items
that appear like the example text in the previous column are to be entered
exactly as shown and are required unless enclosed in brackets ([ ]).

example-text

In code and screen examples, indicates text entered by a user.

Any of the following:
n <example-text>
n <example-text>
n example-text

Identifies a placeholder—such as a parameter or a variable—that you must
substitute with an actual value in a command or in code:

n For output formats where italic text cannot be displayed, variables

AOS-CX 10.16.xxxx CoPP Guide | (5420, 6200, 6300, 6400 Switches)

5

Convention

Usage

n example-text

|

{ }

[ ]

… or

...

are enclosed in angle brackets (< >). Substitute the text—including
the enclosing angle brackets—with an actual value.

n For output formats where italic text can be displayed, variables

might or might not be enclosed in angle brackets. Substitute the
text including the enclosing angle brackets, if any, with an actual
value.

Vertical bar. A logical OR that separates multiple items from which you can
choose only one.
Any spaces that are on either side of the vertical bar are included for
readability and are not a required part of the command syntax.

Braces. Indicates that at least one of the enclosed items is required.

Brackets. Indicates that the enclosed item or items are optional.

Ellipsis:

n In code and screen examples, a vertical or horizontal ellipsis indicates an

omission of information.

n In syntax using brackets and braces, an ellipsis indicates items that can be

repeated. When an item followed by ellipses is enclosed in brackets, zero

or more items can be specified.

About the examples

Examples in this document are representative and might not match your particular switch or
environment.

The slot and port numbers in this document are for illustration only and might be unavailable on your
switch.

Understanding the CLI prompts

When illustrating the prompts in the command line interface (CLI), this document uses the generic term
switch, instead of the host name of the switch. For example:
switch>

The CLI prompt indicates the current command context. For example:
switch>

Indicates the operator command context.

switch#

Indicates the manager command context.

switch(CONTEXT-NAME)#

Indicates the configuration context for a feature. For example:

switch(config-if)#

Identifies the interface context.

Variable information in CLI prompts

In certain configuration contexts, the prompt may include variable information. For example, when in
the VLAN configuration context, a VLAN number appears in the prompt:
switch(config-vlan-100)#

When referring to this context, this document uses the syntax:

About this document | 6

switch(config-vlan-<VLAN-ID>)#

Where <VLAN-ID> is a variable representing the VLAN number.

Identifying switch ports and interfaces

Physical ports on the switch and their corresponding logical software interfaces are identified using the
format: member/slot/port.

On the HPE Aruba Networking 6200 Switch Series

n member: Member number of the switch in a Virtual Switching Framework (VSF) stack. Range: 1 to 8.

The primary switch is always member 1. If the switch is not a member of a VSF stack, then member is
1.

n slot: Always 1. This is not a modular switch, so there are no slots.

n port: Physical number of a port on the switch.

For example, the logical interface 1/1/4 in software is associated with physical port 4 in slot 1 on
member 1.

On the HPE Aruba Networking 6300 Switch Series

n member: Member number of the switch in a Virtual Switching Framework (VSF) stack. Range: 1 to 10.
The primary switch is always member 1. If the switch is not a member of a VSF stack, then member is
1.

n slot: Always 1. This is not a modular switch, so there are no slots.

n port: Physical number of a port on the switch.

For example, the logical interface 1/1/4 in software is associated with physical port 4 on member 1.

On the HPE Aruba Networking 6400 and 5420 Switch Series

n member: Always 1. VSF is not supported on this switch.

n slot: Specifies physical location of a module in the switch chassis.

o Management modules are on the front of the switch in slots 1/1 and 1/2.

o Line modules are on the front of the switch starting in slot 1/3.

n port: Physical number of a port on a line module.

For example, the logical interface 1/3/4 in software is associated with physical port 4 in slot 3 on
member 1.

Identifying modular switch components

n Power supplies are on the front of the switch behind the bezel above the management modules.

Power supplies are labeled in software in the format: member/power supply:

o member: 1.

o power supply: 1 to 4.

n Fans are on the rear of the switch and are labeled in software as: member/tray/fan:

AOS-CX 10.16.xxxx CoPP Guide | (5420, 6200, 6300, 6400 Switches)

7

o member: 1.

o tray: 1 to 4.

o fan: 1 to 4.

n Fabric modules are not labeled on the switch but are labeled in software in the format:

member/module:

o member: 1.

o member: 1 or 2.

n The display module on the rear of the switch is not labeled with a member or slot number.

About this document | 8

Chapter 2

Control Plane Policing (CoPP)

Control Plane Policing (CoPP)

Overview

CoPP provides a way for administrators to protect the management processor on the switch from high
packet loads (generated by malicious or nonmalicious sources) that might interfere with its ability to
keep data plane traffic flowing. For example, a denial of service attack can result in excessive traffic that
would slow down the management processor and negatively affect switch throughput.

A CoPP policy is composed of one or more classes. Each class defines one or more target protocols and
how their traffic is managed. Every policy also has a default class to regulate packets that do not match
any other class. The following actions can be applied for all packets matching a class:

n Drop the packets. (Excluding the default class.)

n Set the processing priority in the range 0 to 6 (0 - highest priority and 6 - lowest priority).

n Set the maximum data rate in packets per second (pps) at which each line module can send packets

to the management processor.

n Set the maximum burst size in packets at which each line module can send packets to the

management processor.

Up to 32 CoPP policies can be defined, but only one can be active on the switch at a time. A CoPP policy
must always be active on the switch. By default, the switch has a CoPP policy named default which is
automatically applied at first boot.

When a line module is hot-swapped or a new line module comes up after boot on a 6400 switch, the
CoPP policy that is actively applied to the switch will be applied.

When the switch reboots, the CoPP policy that was actively applied to the switch before the reboot
occurred s applied if it was saved to the startup configuration with the copy running-config startup-
config command.

For GRE tunneled traffic, CoPP policies match on the payload. CoPP policies do not regulate traffic
received from the Out-of-Band-Management (OOBM) Ethernet port.

Configuring CoPP

Procedure

1. Configure the default CoPP policy, edit an existing policy, or create a policy with the command

copp-policy.

2. Add, edit, or remove classes in the policy with the command class.

3.

If the policy is not the active policy on the switch, apply it with the command apply copp-policy.
(Changes made to an active policy take effect immediately and do not need to be applied.)

4. Review the CoPP policy configuration settings with the command show copp-policy.

Example

This example creates the following configuration:

AOS-CX 10.16.xxxx CoPP Guide | (5420, 6200, 6300, 6400 Switches)

9

n DefinesanewpolicynamedMy_CoppPolicy.
n Addstwoclassestothepolicy.
Activatesthepolicy.
n
n Displayspolicyconfigurationsettings.
| switch(config)#      |     |     | copp-policy | My_CoppPolicy |          |        |      |          |     |
| -------------------- | --- | --- | ----------- | ------------- | -------- | ------ | ---- | -------- | --- |
| switch(config-copp)# |     |     | class       | igmp          | priority | 6 rate | 5000 | burst 60 |     |
switch(config-copp)# class lacp priority 2 rate 2000 burst 2050
| switch(config-copp)# |      |             | exit  |               |               |           |      |          |          |
| -------------------- | ---- | ----------- | ----- | ------------- | ------------- | --------- | ---- | -------- | -------- |
| switch(config)#      |      |             | apply | copp-policy   | My_CoppPolicy |           |      |          |          |
| switch(config)#      |      |             | exit  |               |               |           |      |          |          |
| switch#              | show | copp-policy |       | My_CoppPolicy |               |           |      |          |          |
| class                |      |             |       | drop priority | rate          | pps burst | pkts | hardware | rate pps |
--------------------- ---- -------- -------- ---------- -----------------
| igmp    |       |     |          | 6   | 5000 | 60   |     | 5000 |     |
| ------- | ----- | --- | -------- | --- | ---- | ---- | --- | ---- | --- |
| lacp    |       |     |          | 2   | 2000 | 2050 |     | 2000 |     |
| default |       |     |          | 1   | 6000 | 70   |     | 6000 |     |
| Actual  | rates | in  | hardware |     |      |      |     |      |     |
Currently,theactualrateinhardwareisdeterminedbyamappingbasedontheconfiguredrate,shown
bythefollowingtableofthefirstnineactualrates.
| | Configured |     | Rate (pps) | |   | Actual | Rate in Hardware | (pps) |     | |   |     |
| ------------ | --- | ---------- | --- | ------ | ---------------- | ----- | --- | --- | --- |
|-----------------------|-------------------------------|
| | 25-49   |     |     | |   | 25  |     |     |     | |   |     |
| --------- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| | 50-74   |     |     | |   | 50  |     |     |     | |   |     |
| | 75-99   |     |     | |   | 75  |     |     |     | |   |     |
| | 100-124 |     |     | |   | 100 |     |     |     | |   |     |
| | 125-149 |     |     | |   | 125 |     |     |     | |   |     |
| | 150-174 |     |     | |   | 150 |     |     |     | |   |     |
| | 175-199 |     |     | |   | 175 |     |     |     | |   |     |
| | 200-224 |     |     | |   | 200 |     |     |     | |   |     |
| | 225-249 |     |     | |   | 225 |     |     |     | |   |     |
Theprecedingtableshowsthefirstnineactualratesavailableinhardware.Higherratesareavailable.
The'show copp-policy statistics class <CLASS>'commandcanbeusedtoshowtheactualratein
hardwareforaspecificclass.The'show copp-policy <NAME>'commandcanbeusedtoshowtheactual
ratesforallclassesconfiguredinaspecificCoPPpolicy,ifthepolicyisactivelyapplied.
| CoPP    | commands |         |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |
| ------- | -------- | ------- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| Classes | of       | traffic |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |
Thedifferentclassesoftrafficthatcanbeindividuallyconfiguredare:
AppliestotheHPEArubaNetworking5420,6200,6300and6400SwitchSeries.
n acl-logging:AccessControlListloggingpackets.
n arp-broadcast:AddressResolutionProtocolpacketswithabroadcastdestinationMACaddress.
n arp-protect:AddressResolutionProtocolpacketsinterceptedandinspectedforARPprotection.
n arp-unicast:AddressResolutionProtocolpacketswithaswitchsystemdestinationMACaddress.
bfd-control:BidirectionalForwardingDetection(BFD)controlpacketswithadestinationIPaddress
n
ownedbytheswitch.
ControlPlanePolicing(CoPP)|10

The bfd-control class is not supported for HPE Aruba Networking 6200 or 5420 Switch series.

n bgp: Border Gateway Protocol packets with a destination IPv4 or IPv6 address owned by the switch.

The bgp class is not supported for HPE Aruba Networking 6200 Switch series.

n captive-portal: Packets intercepted in support of the Captive Portal feature.

n client-onboard: Packets for client onboard protocols such as user-based tunneling.

n dfp-collector: Packets received for Device FingerPrinting Collector.

n dhcp: Dynamic Host Configuration Protocol packets. Also includes snooped DHCP packets if DHCP

snooping isenabled.

n erps: Ethernet Ring Protection Switching control packets with the destination MAC address

01:19:a7:00:00:XX, where XX can be any value or Smartlink packets with the destination MAC address
01:0f:e2:00:00:04.

n fib-optimization: Packets for Forwarding Information Base (FIB) Optimization.

The fib-optimization class is not supported for HPE Aruba Networking 6200 Switch series.

n icmp-broadcast-ipv4: Internet Control Message Protocol packets with a broadcast or multicast

destination IPv4 address.

n icmp-multicast-ipv6: Internet Control Message Protocol packets with a well-known multicast

destination IPv6 address.

n icmp-security-ipv6: IPv6 Internet Control Message Protocol packets intercepted and inspected.

n icmp-unicast-ipv4: Internet Control Message Protocol packets with a destination IPv4 address

owned by the switch.

n icmp-unicast-ipv6: Internet Control Message Protocol packets with a destination IPv6 address

owned by the switch.

n ieee-8021x: IEEE 802.1X protocol packets with EtherType 0x0888E.

n igmp: Internet Group Management Protocol packets.

n ip-exceptions: Routable packets that would exceed the MTU for the egress interface, packets that
trigger ICMP redirects, and packets with TTL/hop_limit=1 that are discarded when routing through
the switch.

n ip-lockdown: Packets denied and logged due to violation of allowed "IP address/VLAN/port/MAC

address" association.

n ip-tracker: Packets received for client IP address tracking.

n ipfix: Packets received for IPFIX (IP Flow Information Export).

The ipfix class is not supported for HPE Aruba Networking 6200 Switch series.

n ipsec: Internet Protocol Security IPv4 or IPv6, unicast or configured multicast. All IPsec traffic received

by the CPU will be regulated by the 'ipsec' class regardless of the encapsulated protocol.

n ipv4-options: Unicast IPv4 packets including option headers.

n lacp: Link Aggregation Control Protocol packets with the destination MAC address 01:80:c2:00:00:02.

n lldp: Link Layer Discovery Protocol packets with the destination MAC address 01:80:c2:00:00:0e.

AOS-CX 10.16.xxxx CoPP Guide | (5420, 6200, 6300, 6400 Switches)

11

n loop-protect: Loop Protection packets with the destination MAC address 09:00:09:09:13:a6.

n mac-lockout: Packets denied and logged due to locked-out MAC address.

n manageability: Unicast IP packets addressed to the switch for specific protocols, like HTTP, SSH,

Telnet and RADIUS that don't have a dedicated CoPP class.

n mdns: Multicast Domain Name System packets.

n mirror-to-cpu: Packets from mirroring session configured to deliver to the console.

n mld: Multicast Listener Discovery packets of type V1 or V2 with an IPv6 address of FF00::/8, FF02::16

or FF02::2.

n mvrp: Multiple VLAN Registration Protocol packets with the destination MAC address

01:80:c2:00:00:0d or 01:80:c2:00:00:21 or Multiple Stream Reservation Protocol with Ether Type
0x22EA.

n nae-packet-monitor: Network Analytics Engine (NAE) monitored packets.

n ntp: Network Time Protocol packets with a destination IP address owned by the switch.

n ospf-multicast: Open Shortest Path First packets with the multicast destination IPv4 address

224.0.0.5 or 224.0.0.6, or IPv6 address FF02::5 or FF02::6, or Routing Information Protocol packets
with the multicast destination IPv4 address 224.0.0.9 or IPv6 address FF02::9, or MPLS Label
Distribution Protocol packets with the multicast destination IPv4 address 224.0.0.2 and destination
UDP port 646. Also includes OSPF multicast packets received from a 6in6 tunnel.

n ospf-unicast: Open Shortest Path First packets or Routing Information Protocol packets with a local
destination IPv4 address or IPv6 address. Also includes OSPF unicast packets received from a 6in6
tunnel.

n pim: Protocol Independent Multicast packets with the destination IPv4 address 224.0.0.13 or IPv6
address FF02::D, or Multicast Source Discovery Protocol (MSDP) packets, or with a destination IP
address owned by the switch. Also includes PIM packets received from a 6in6 tunnel.

n ptp: Precision Time Protocol (PTP) packets to synchronize clocks between networks.

The ipfix class is not supported for HPE Aruba Networking 6200 Switch series.

n secure-learn: Packets intercepted and inspected to see if source MAC address is allowed on the

port.

n sflow: Packet headers sampled by the switch that will be sent to the sFlow collector.

n stp: Spanning Tree Protocol (STP) packets with the destination MAC address 01:80:c2:00:00:00 or Per-

VLAN Spanning Tree (PVST) packets with the destination MAC address 01:00:0c:cc:cc:cd.

n udld: Unidirectional Link Detection packets with the destination MAC address 01:00:0c:cc:cc:cc or

00:e0:52:00:00:00, or Cisco Discovery Protocol packets with the destination MAC address
01:00:0c:cc:cc:cc.

n unknown-multicast: Packets with an unknown multicast destination IP address. Also includes

unknown multicast packets received from a 6in6 tunnel.

n unresolved-ip-unicast: Packets to be software forwarded by the management processor.

n vrrp: Virtual Router Redundancy Protocol packets with the destination IPv4 address 224.0.0.18 or

IPv6 address FF02::12, or VSX-Keepalive packets.

To regulate any other traffic destined for the CPU, every CoPP policy has a class named default that can
also be configured to regulate other traffic to the CPU or prevent other traffic from being delivered.

Control Plane Policing (CoPP) | 12

AllIPsectrafficreceivedbytheCPUwillberegulatedbytheipsecclassregardlessoftheencapsulatedprotocol.
WhenARPprotectionisenabledonthesystem,allARPtrafficwillberegulatedbythearp-protectclass,
regardlessoftheARPdestinationandconfigurationofarp-broadcastorarp-unicastCoPPclasses.
PacketsforeachoftheCoPPclassesabovemayhavearrivedthroughatunnel,iftunnelingwasenabled.
apply copp-policy
| apply copp-policy    | { <NAME> | | default | }   |
| -------------------- | -------- | --------- | --- |
| no apply copp-policy | <NAME>   |           |     |
Description
AppliesaCoPPpolicytotheswitch,replacingthepolicythatisineffect.Theremaybeabrief
interruptionintrafficflowtothemanagementprocessorwhiletheswitchimplementsthechange.
Entertheno apply copp-policy <NAME>commandwiththenameofaCoPPpolicytounapplyaCoPP
policyandapplythedefaultCoPPpolicy.Thiswillonlytakeeffectifthespecifiedpolicyisactively
applied.SincetheremustalwaysbeaCoPPpolicyapplied,thiscommandeffectivelyattemptstoreplace
theappliedCoPPpolicywiththedefaultCoPPpolicy.ThedefaultCoPPpolicycannotbeunappliedusing
thiscommand.
| Parameter |     |     | Description                                     |
| --------- | --- | --- | ----------------------------------------------- |
| <NAME>    |     |     | Specifiesthenameofthepolicytoapply.Length:1to64 |
characters.
| default |     |     | Appliesthedefaultpolicy. |
| ------- | --- | --- | ------------------------ |
Usage
Ifthenewpolicycannotbeapplied(forexample,duetoalackofhardwareresources),theprevious
policyremainsineffect.Usetheshowcopp-policycommandtodeterminewhichpolicyisineffect.
Examples
ApplyingapolicynamedMy_CoppPolicy:
| switch(config)# | apply | copp-policy | My_CoppPolicy |
| --------------- | ----- | ----------- | ------------- |
Applyingthedefaultpolicy:
| switch(config)# | apply | copp-policy | default |
| --------------- | ----- | ----------- | ------- |
UnapplyingapolicynamedMy_CoppPolicy:
| switch(config)# | no apply | copp-policy | My_CoppPolicy |
| --------------- | -------- | ----------- | ------------- |
| Command History |          |             |               |
AOS-CX10.16.xxxxCoPPGuide|(5420,6200,6300,6400Switches) 13

Release

10.07 or earlier

Modification

--

Command Information

Platforms

Command context

Authority

All platforms

config

Administrators or local user group members with execution
rights for this command.

class
class <CLASS> {drop | priority <PRIORITY> rate <RATE> [burst <BURST>]}
no class <CLASS> {drop | priority <PRIORITY> rate <RATE> [burst <BURST>]}

Description

Adds a class to a CoPP policy. If the class exists, the existing class is modified. Changes made to an
active (applied) policy take effect immediately.

When adding or modifying a class in an active policy, CoPP immediately activates the change on the
switch. In cases where insufficient hardware resources exist to support a class or its action, CoPP fails to
activate the changed class on the switch. When this failure occurs, the active configuration on the switch
will be out of sync with its definition. To diagnose and remedy this situation:

n Use the show copp-policy command to determine which classes are out of sync between the active

policy and its definition.

n Use the reset copp-policy command to synchronize the active policy with its definition. This

synchronization changes the classes in the definition to match the classes in the active policy.

The no form of this command removes the configuration for the class. Traffic for the class will be
prioritized and regulated using the factory default configuration for the class. Use the show copp-
policy factory-default command to display the factory default CoPP policy. To stop a class of traffic
from reaching the processor, set the class action to drop.

Parameter

<CLASS>

drop

Description

Specifies the class to add or edit.

Drop packets matching the selected class.

priority <PRIORITY>

Specifies the priority for packets matching the selected class.
Range: 0 to 6.

rate <RATE>

burst <BURST>

Examples

Specifies the maximum rate, in packets per second (pps), for
packets matching the selected class. Range: 25 to 99999.

Specifies the maximum burst size, in packets, for packets
matching the selected class. Range: 1 to 9999.

Adding a class to handle LACP traffic with priority of 2 and rate of 2000:

Control Plane Policing (CoPP) | 14

| switch(config-copp)# |     |     | class |     | lacp priority | 2 rate 2000 |     |
| -------------------- | --- | --- | ----- | --- | ------------- | ----------- | --- |
ModifyingtheclasstodropLLDPpackets:
| switch(config-copp)# |     |     | class |     | lldp drop |     |     |
| -------------------- | --- | --- | ----- | --- | --------- | --- | --- |
RemovingtheclassthathandlesLLDPpackets.
| switch(config-copp)# |     |             | no  | class   | lldp         |     |     |
| -------------------- | --- | ----------- | --- | ------- | ------------ | --- | --- |
| Command              |     | History     |     |         |              |     |     |
| Release              |     |             |     |         | Modification |     |     |
| 10.07orearlier       |     |             |     |         | --           |     |     |
| Command              |     | Information |     |         |              |     |     |
| Platforms            |     | Command     |     | context | Authority    |     |     |
config-copp
Allplatforms Administratorsorlocalusergroupmemberswithexecution
rightsforthiscommand.
| clear | copp-policy |     | statistics |     |     |     |     |
| ----- | ----------- | --- | ---------- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| clear | copp-policy |     | statistics |     |     |     |     |
Description
ResetsstatisticsforallCoPPclassestozero.
Examples
Displayingandthenresettingstatisticsforallclassesintheactivepolicy:
| switch#    |     | show copp-policy |             | statistics |            |     |     |
| ---------- | --- | ---------------- | ----------- | ---------- | ---------- | --- | --- |
| Statistics |     | for              | CoPP policy |            | 'default': |     |     |
Totals:
|        | packets       | passed    | :       | 1000 |            | packets dropped | : 1500 |
| ------ | ------------- | --------- | ------- | ---- | ---------- | --------------- | ------ |
| Class: | default       |           |         |      |            |                 |        |
|        | packets       | passed    | :       | 400  |            | packets dropped | : 600  |
| Class: | acl-logging   |           |         |      |            |                 |        |
|        | packets       | passed    | :       | 100  |            | packets dropped | : 100  |
| Class: | arp-broadcast |           |         |      |            |                 |        |
|        | packets       | passed    | :       | 500  |            | packets dropped | : 800  |
|        |               | <--OUTPUT | OMITTED | FOR  | BREVITY--> |                 |        |
switch#
|            |     | clear copp-policy |             | statistics |            |     |     |
| ---------- | --- | ----------------- | ----------- | ---------- | ---------- | --- | --- |
| switch#    |     | show copp-policy  |             | statistics |            |     |     |
| Statistics |     | for               | CoPP policy |            | 'default': |     |     |
Totals:
|        | packets     | passed | :   | 0   |     | packets dropped | : 0 |
| ------ | ----------- | ------ | --- | --- | --- | --------------- | --- |
| Class: | default     |        |     |     |     |                 |     |
|        | packets     | passed | :   | 0   |     | packets dropped | : 0 |
| Class: | acl-logging |        |     |     |     |                 |     |
AOS-CX10.16.xxxxCoPPGuide|(5420,6200,6300,6400Switches) 15

|                | packets       | passed               | : 0     |              | packets dropped | : 0 |
| -------------- | ------------- | -------------------- | ------- | ------------ | --------------- | --- |
| Class:         | arp-broadcast |                      |         |              |                 |     |
|                | packets       | passed               | : 0     |              | packets dropped | : 0 |
| Command        | History       |                      |         |              |                 |     |
| Release        |               |                      |         | Modification |                 |     |
| 10.07orearlier |               |                      |         | --           |                 |     |
| Command        | Information   |                      |         |              |                 |     |
| Platforms      |               | Command              | context | Authority    |                 |     |
| Allplatforms   |               | Operator(>)orManager |         |              |                 |     |
(#)
copp-policy
| copp-policy    |     | {<NAME> | | default | [revert]} |     |     |
| -------------- | --- | ------- | --------- | --------- | --- | --- |
| no copp-policy |     | <NAME>  |           |           |     |     |
Description
CreatesaCoPPpolicyandswitchestotheconfig-coppcontextforthepolicy.Or,ifthespecifiedpolicy
exists,switchestotheconfig-coppcontextforthepolicy.Apredefinedpolicy,nameddefault,contains
factorydefaultclassesandisappliedtotheswitchatfirststartup.Thispolicycannotbedeleted,butits
configurationcanbechanged.
ThenoformofthiscommandremovesaCoPPpolicy.Ifapolicyisactive(applied),itcannotberemoved
.Itmustbereplacedwithanotherpolicybeforeitcanberemoved.
| Parameter |     |     |     | Description                                         |     |     |
| --------- | --- | --- | --- | --------------------------------------------------- | --- | --- |
| <NAME>    |     |     |     | Specifiesthenameofthepolicytoaddoredit.Length:1to64 |     |     |
characters.Thenamemustnotbeasubstringofanyofthe
followingreservedwords:default,factory-default,commands,
configuration,orstatistics.
| default |     |     |     | SpecifiesthedefaultCoPPpolicy.Usethisdefaultpolicyto |     |     |
| ------- | --- | --- | --- | ---------------------------------------------------- | --- | --- |
configurethedefaultpolicy.
| revert |     |     |     | SetsthedefaultCoPPpolicytoitsfactorysettings. |     |     |
| ------ | --- | --- | --- | --------------------------------------------- | --- | --- |
Examples
CreatingapolicynamedMy_CoppPolicy:
| switch(config)# |     |     | copp-policy | My_CoppPolicy |     |     |
| --------------- | --- | --- | ----------- | ------------- | --- | --- |
switch(config-copp)#
RemovingapolicynamedMy_CoppPolicy:
ControlPlanePolicing(CoPP)|16

| switch(config)# |     | no  | copp-policy |     | My_CoppPolicy |     |
| --------------- | --- | --- | ----------- | --- | ------------- | --- |
Settingthedefaultpolicytoitsfactorysettings:
| switch(config)# |     | copp-policy |     | default | revert |     |
| --------------- | --- | ----------- | --- | ------- | ------ | --- |
UnapplyingthepolicynamedMy_CoppPolicy:
| switch(config)# |             | no  | apply   | copp-policy | My_CoppPolicy |     |
| --------------- | ----------- | --- | ------- | ----------- | ------------- | --- |
| Command         | History     |     |         |             |               |     |
| Release         |             |     |         |             | Modification  |     |
| 10.07orearlier  |             |     |         |             | --            |     |
| Command         | Information |     |         |             |               |     |
| Platforms       | Command     |     | context |             | Authority     |     |
config
Allplatforms Administratorsorlocalusergroupmemberswithexecution
rightsforthiscommand.
default-class
| default-class | priority |     | <PRIORITY> |     | rate <RATE> | [burst <BURST>] |
| ------------- | -------- | --- | ---------- | --- | ----------- | --------------- |
Description
ConfiguresthedefaultclassthatisautomaticallydefinedforallCoPPpolicies.Thedefaultclasscannot
beremoved,butitsconfigurationcanbechanged.Thedefaultclassisappliedtotrafficthatdoesnot
matchanyotherclassdefinedforapolicy.
| Parameter |     |     |     |     | Description |     |
| --------- | --- | --- | --- | --- | ----------- | --- |
priority <PRIORITY> Specifiesthepriorityforpacketsmatchingtheselectedclass.
Range:0to6.
rate <RATE> Specifiesthemaximumrate,inpacketspersecond(pps),for
packetsmatchingtheselectedclass.Range:25to99999.
burst <BURST> Specifiesthemaximumburstsize,inpackets,forpackets
matchingtheselectedclass.Range:1to9999.
Example
Settingthedefaultclasstoapriorityof2andrateof2000:
| switch(config-copp)# |         |     | default-class |     | priority | 2 rate 2000 |
| -------------------- | ------- | --- | ------------- | --- | -------- | ----------- |
| Command              | History |     |               |     |          |             |
AOS-CX10.16.xxxxCoPPGuide|(5420,6200,6300,6400Switches) 17

| Release             |         |         |     | Modification |     |     |     |     |
| ------------------- | ------- | ------- | --- | ------------ | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| 10.07orearlier      |         |         |     | --           |     |     |     |     |
| Command Information |         |         |     |              |     |     |     |     |
| Platforms           | Command | context |     | Authority    |     |     |     |     |
Allplatforms config-copp Administratorsorlocalusergroupmemberswithexecution
rightsforthiscommand.
reset copp-policy
| reset copp-policy | { <NAME> |     | | default | }   |     |     |     |     |
| ----------------- | -------- | --- | --------- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
Description
ResetsanactiveCoPPpolicytomatchthesettingsthatarecurrentlyineffectfortheactivepolicyonthe
switch.Changesmadetotheactivepolicythatcouldnotbeactivatedareremovedfromtheactive
policy.WhentheswitchfailstoaddormodifyaclassinanactiveCoPPpolicy,itispossibletheactive
policysettingsontheswitchmaybeoutofsyncwiththosedefinedinthepolicy.
| Parameter |     |     |     | Description                                     |     |     |     |     |
| --------- | --- | --- | --- | ----------------------------------------------- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| <NAME>    |     |     |     | Specifiesthenameofthepolicytoreset.Length:1to64 |     |     |     |     |
characters.
| default |     |     |     | Resetsthedefaultpolicytomatchitsactivesettings. |     |     |     |     |
| ------- | --- | --- | --- | ----------------------------------------------- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
Examples
ResettingapolicynamedMy_CoppPolicy:
| switch# show | copp-policy |      | My_CoppPolicy |      |           |      |          |          |
| ------------ | ----------- | ---- | ------------- | ---- | --------- | ---- | -------- | -------- |
| class        |             | drop | priority      | rate | pps burst | pkts | hardware | rate pps |
--------------------- ---- -------- -------- ---------- -----------------
| igmp    |     |     | 6   | 5000 | 60   |     | 5000 |     |
| ------- | --- | --- | --- | ---- | ---- | --- | ---- | --- |
| lacp    |     |     | 2   | 2000 | 2050 |     | 2000 |     |
| default |     |     | 1   | 6000 | 70   |     | 6000 |     |
switch#
config terminal
| switch(config)#      | copp-policy |       | My_CoppPolicy    |          |               |       |          |          |
| -------------------- | ----------- | ----- | ---------------- | -------- | ------------- | ----- | -------- | -------- |
| switch(config-copp)# |             | class | stp              | priority | 4 rate 4000   | burst | 60       |          |
| switch(config-copp)# |             | do    | show copp-policy |          | My_CoppPolicy |       |          |          |
| class                |             | drop  | priority         | rate     | pps burst     | pkts  | hardware | rate pps |
--------------------- ---- -------- -------- ---------- -----------------
| igmp    |     |     | 6   | 5000 | 60   |     | 5000 |     |
| ------- | --- | --- | --- | ---- | ---- | --- | ---- | --- |
| lacp    |     |     | 2   | 2000 | 2050 |     | 2000 |     |
| default |     |     | 1   | 6000 | 70   |     | 6000 |     |
% Warning: user-specified classes in CoPP policy My_CoppPolicy do not match
| active configuration. |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |
| --------------------- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
switch(config-copp)# do show copp-policy My_CoppPolicy configuration
| class |     | drop | priority | rate | pps burst | pkts | applied |     |
| ----- | --- | ---- | -------- | ---- | --------- | ---- | ------- | --- |
--------------------- ---- -------- -------- ---------- -------
| igmp    |     |     | 6   | 5000 | 60   |     | yes |     |
| ------- | --- | --- | --- | ---- | ---- | --- | --- | --- |
| lacp    |     |     | 2   | 2000 | 2050 |     | yes |     |
| stp     |     |     | 4   | 4000 | 60   |     | no  |     |
| default |     |     | 1   | 6000 | 70   |     | yes |     |
ControlPlanePolicing(CoPP)|18

% Warning: user-specified classes in CoPP policy My_CoppPolicy do not match
| active configuration. |       |                  |               |            |          |          |
| --------------------- | ----- | ---------------- | ------------- | ---------- | -------- | -------- |
| switch(config-copp)#  |       | exit             |               |            |          |          |
| switch(config)#       | reset | copp-policy      | My_CoppPolicy |            |          |          |
| switch(config)#       | do    | show copp-policy | My_CoppPolicy |            |          |          |
| class                 |       | drop priority    | rate pps      | burst pkts | hardware | rate pps |
--------------------- ---- -------- -------- ---------- -----------------
| igmp    |     | 6   | 5000 | 60   | 5000 |     |
| ------- | --- | --- | ---- | ---- | ---- | --- |
| lacp    |     | 2   | 2000 | 2050 | 2000 |     |
| default |     | 1   | 6000 | 70   | 6000 |     |
Resettingthedefaultpolicy:
| switch(config)#     | reset   | copp-policy | default      |     |     |     |
| ------------------- | ------- | ----------- | ------------ | --- | --- | --- |
| Command History     |         |             |              |     |     |     |
| Release             |         |             | Modification |     |     |     |
| 10.07orearlier      |         |             | --           |     |     |     |
| Command Information |         |             |              |     |     |     |
| Platforms           | Command | context     | Authority    |     |     |     |
Allplatforms config Administratorsorlocalusergroupmemberswithexecution
rightsforthiscommand.
show copp-policy
show copp-policy [<NAME> | default] [commands] [configuration] [vsx-peer]
Description
ShowsCoPPpolicysettingsforaspecificCoPPpolicy.Whenenteredwithoutspecifyingeitheranameor
thedefaultparameter,showsalltheCoPPpolicysettingsthatareactiveontheswitchandhave
successfullybeenprogrammedintothehardware.
Awarningisdisplayedif:
n Theactiveanduser-specifiedapplicationsofapolicydonotmatch.
n Theactiveanduser-specifiedconfigurationsofapolicydonotmatch.
| Parameter |     |     | Description                                           |     |     |     |
| --------- | --- | --- | ----------------------------------------------------- | --- | --- | --- |
| <NAME>    |     |     | Specifiesthenameofthepolicyforwhichtodisplaysettings. |     |     |     |
Length:1to64characters.
default
DisplaysCoPPsettingsforthedefaultpolicy.
| commands |     |     | DisplaysoutputasCLIcommands. |     |     |     |
| -------- | --- | --- | ---------------------------- | --- | --- | --- |
configuration Displaysuser-specifiedCoPPsettingsandnottheactivesettings.
AOS-CX10.16.xxxxCoPPGuide|(5420,6200,6300,6400Switches) 19

| Parameter |     |     |     |     |     | Description |     |     |     |     |
| --------- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | ----------- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
vsx-peer ShowstheoutputfromtheVSXpeerswitch.Iftheswitchesdonot
havetheVSXconfigurationortheISLisdown,theoutputfromthe
VSXpeerswitchisnotdisplayed.Thisparameterisavailableon
switchesthatsupportVSX.
Example
DisplayingtheCoPPpoliciesdefinedintheconfigurationandtheactiveapplication:
switch#
show copp-policy
| applied | copp_policy_name |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |
| ------- | ---------------- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| ------- | ---------------- |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |
My_CoppPolicy
| applied | default |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |
| ------- | ------- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
switch#
DisplayingtheactiveconfigurationofallCoPPpoliciesasCLIcommands:
| switch#       | show        | copp-policy   |          | commands |                |            |       |            |     |     |
| ------------- | ----------- | ------------- | -------- | -------- | -------------- | ---------- | ----- | ---------- | --- | --- |
| copp-policy   |             | My_CoppPolicy |          |          |                |            |       |            |     |     |
| class         |             | igmp          | priority | 6        | rate 5000      | burst      | 60    |            |     |     |
| class         |             | lacp          | priority | 2        | rate 2000      | burst      | 2050  |            |     |     |
| default-class |             |               | priority |          | 1 rate         | 6000 burst |       | 70         |     |     |
| copp-policy   |             | default       |          |          |                |            |       |            |     |     |
| class         |             | acl-logging   |          | priority | 0              | rate 25    | burst | 3          |     |     |
| class         |             | arp-broadcast |          | priority |                | 2 rate     | 1250  | burst 1250 |     |     |
| class         |             | arp-protect   |          | priority | 2              | rate 2075  | burst | 2075       |     |     |
| class         |             | arp-unicast   |          | priority | 3              | rate 825   | burst | 825        |     |     |
| class         |             | bfd-control   |          | priority | 5              | rate 850   | burst | 850        |     |     |
|               | <--OUTPUT   |               | OMITTED  |          | FOR BREVITY--> |            |       |            |     |     |
| default-class |             |               | priority |          | 2 rate         | 4225 burst |       | 528        |     |     |
| apply         | copp-policy |               | default  |          |                |            |       |            |     |     |
switch#
Displayingthedefaultpolicy:
| switch# | show | copp-policy |     | default |          |      |     |            |          |          |
| ------- | ---- | ----------- | --- | ------- | -------- | ---- | --- | ---------- | -------- | -------- |
| class   |      |             |     | drop    | priority | rate | pps | burst pkts | hardware | rate pps |
--------------------- ---- -------- -------- ---------- -----------------
| acl-logging    |         |         |     |     | 0          | 25           |     | 3    | 25   |     |
| -------------- | ------- | ------- | --- | --- | ---------- | ------------ | --- | ---- | ---- | --- |
| arp-broadcast  |         |         |     |     | 2          | 1250         |     | 1250 | 1250 |     |
| arp-protect    |         |         |     |     | 2          | 2075         |     | 2075 | 2075 |     |
| arp-unicast    |         |         |     |     | 3          | 825          |     | 825  | 825  |     |
| bfd-control    |         |         |     |     | 5          | 850          |     | 850  | 850  |     |
| <--OUTPUT      |         | OMITTED |     | FOR | BREVITY--> |              |     |      |      |     |
| default        |         |         |     |     | 2          | 4225         |     | 528  | 4225 |     |
| Command        | History |         |     |     |            |              |     |      |      |     |
| Release        |         |         |     |     |            | Modification |     |      |      |     |
| 10.07orearlier |         |         |     |     |            | --           |     |      |      |     |
ControlPlanePolicing(CoPP)|20

| Command      | Information |                      |         |     |           |     |     |     |     |     |
| ------------ | ----------- | -------------------- | ------- | --- | --------- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| Platforms    |             | Command              | context |     | Authority |     |     |     |     |     |
| Allplatforms |             | Operator(>)orManager |         |     |           |     |     |     |     |     |
(#)
| show | copp-policy |                 | factory-default |            |     |            |     |     |     |     |
| ---- | ----------- | --------------- | --------------- | ---------- | --- | ---------- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| show | copp-policy | factory-default |                 | [commands] |     | [vsx-peer] |     |     |     |     |
Description
Displaytheconfigurationforthefactory-defaultCoPPpolicy.
| Parameter |     |     |     |     | Description |     |     |     |     |     |
| --------- | --- | --- | --- | --- | ----------- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
commands
DisplaysoutputasCLIcommands.
vsx-peer ShowstheoutputfromtheVSXpeerswitch.Iftheswitchesdonot
havetheVSXconfigurationortheISLisdown,theoutputfromthe
VSXpeerswitchisnotdisplayed.Thisparameterisavailableon
switchesthatsupportVSX.
Example
Displayingthefactory-defaultpolicy:
| switch#               | show      | copp-policy |      | factory-default |     |          |            |      |     |     |
| --------------------- | --------- | ----------- | ---- | --------------- | --- | -------- | ---------- | ---- | --- | --- |
| class                 |           |             | drop | priority        |     | rate pps | burst      | pkts |     |     |
| --------------------- |           |             | ---- | --------        |     | -------- | ---------- |      |     |     |
| acl-logging           |           |             |      | 0               |     | 25       | 3          |      |     |     |
| arp-broadcast         |           |             |      | 2               |     | 1250     | 1250       |      |     |     |
| arp-protect           |           |             |      | 2               |     | 2075     | 2075       |      |     |     |
| arp-unicast           |           |             |      | 3               |     | 825      | 825        |      |     |     |
| bfd-control           |           |             |      | 5               |     | 850      | 850        |      |     |     |
|                       | <--OUTPUT | OMITTED     | FOR  | BREVITY-->      |     |          |            |      |     |     |
| default               |           |             |      | 2               |     | 4225     | 528        |      |     |     |
DisplayingtheactiveconfigurationofMy_CoppPolicy(My_CoppPolicyisapplied):
| switch# | config | terminal |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |
| ------- | ------ | -------- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
switch(config)#
|                 |     | apply | copp-policy |             | My_CoppPolicy |               |       |      |          |          |
| --------------- | --- | ----- | ----------- | ----------- | ------------- | ------------- | ----- | ---- | -------- | -------- |
| switch(config)# |     | do    | show        | copp-policy |               | My_CoppPolicy |       |      |          |          |
| class           |     |       | drop        | priority    |               | rate pps      | burst | pkts | hardware | rate pps |
--------------------- ---- -------- -------- ---------- -----------------
| igmp    |     |     |     | 6   |     | 5000 | 60   |     | 5000 |     |
| ------- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | ---- | ---- | --- | ---- | --- |
| lacp    |     |     |     | 2   |     | 2000 | 2050 |     | 2000 |     |
| default |     |     |     | 1   |     | 6000 | 70   |     | 6000 |     |
DisplayingtheactiveconfigurationofMy_CoppPolicyasCLIcommands:
| switch#     | show  | copp-policy   |     | My_CoppPolicy |      | commands |     |     |     |     |
| ----------- | ----- | ------------- | --- | ------------- | ---- | -------- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| copp-policy |       | My_CoppPolicy |     |               |      |          |     |     |     |     |
|             | class | igmp priority |     | 6 rate        | 5000 | burst    | 60  |     |     |     |
AOS-CX10.16.xxxxCoPPGuide|(5420,6200,6300,6400Switches) 21

|       | class         | lacp | priority      | 2 rate | 2000 | burst | 2050 |     |     |
| ----- | ------------- | ---- | ------------- | ------ | ---- | ----- | ---- | --- | --- |
|       | default-class |      | priority      | 1 rate | 6000 | burst | 70   |     |     |
| apply | copp-policy   |      | My_CoppPolicy |        |      |       |      |     |     |
Displayingtheuser-specifiedconfigurationofMy_CoppPolicy:
| switch# | show | copp-policy |     | My_CoppPolicy |     | configuration |       |      |         |
| ------- | ---- | ----------- | --- | ------------- | --- | ------------- | ----- | ---- | ------- |
| class   |      |             |     | drop priority |     | rate pps      | burst | pkts | applied |
--------------------- ---- -------- -------- ---------- -------
| igmp    |     |     |     | 6   |     | 5000 | 60   |     | yes |
| ------- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | ---- | ---- | --- | --- |
| lacp    |     |     |     | 2   |     | 2000 | 2050 |     | yes |
| default |     |     |     | 1   |     | 6000 | 70   |     | yes |
Displayingtheuser-specifiedconfigurationofMy_CoppPolicyasCLIcommands:
| switch#        | show          | copp-policy          |               | My_CoppPolicy |              | commands |      | configuration |     |
| -------------- | ------------- | -------------------- | ------------- | ------------- | ------------ | -------- | ---- | ------------- | --- |
| copp-policy    |               | My_CoppPolicy        |               |               |              |          |      |               |     |
|                | class         | igmp                 | priority      | 6 rate        | 5000         | burst    | 60   |               |     |
|                | class         | lacp                 | priority      | 2 rate        | 2000         | burst    | 2050 |               |     |
|                | default-class |                      | priority      | 1 rate        | 6000         | burst    | 70   |               |     |
| apply          | copp-policy   |                      | My_CoppPolicy |               |              |          |      |               |     |
| Command        | History       |                      |               |               |              |          |      |               |     |
| Release        |               |                      |               |               | Modification |          |      |               |     |
| 10.07orearlier |               |                      |               |               | --           |          |      |               |     |
| Command        | Information   |                      |               |               |              |          |      |               |     |
| Platforms      |               | Command              |               | context       | Authority    |          |      |               |     |
| Allplatforms   |               | Operator(>)orManager |               |               |              |          |      |               |     |
(#)
| show | copp-policy |     | statistics |     |     |     |     |     |     |
| ---- | ----------- | --- | ---------- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
show copp-policy statistics [class <CLASS> | default-class | non-zero] [vsx-peer]
Description
Displaysstatisticsforallclasses,asingleclass,orallclasseswithnon-zerostatisticsintheactiveCoPP
policy.
| Parameter     |     |     |     |     | Description                                   |     |     |     |     |
| ------------- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --------------------------------------------- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| <CLASS>       |     |     |     |     | Specifiestheclassforwhichtodisplaystatistics. |     |     |     |     |
| default-class |     |     |     |     | Displaysstatisticsforthedefaultclass.         |     |     |     |     |
non-zero Displaysstatisticsforallclasseswithnon-zerostatistics.
ControlPlanePolicing(CoPP)|22

| Parameter |     |     |     |     |     | Description |     |     |
| --------- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | ----------- | --- | --- |
vsx-peer ShowstheoutputfromtheVSXpeerswitch.Iftheswitchesdonot
havetheVSXconfigurationortheISLisdown,theoutputfromthe
VSXpeerswitchisnotdisplayed.Thisparameterisavailableon
switchesthatsupportVSX.
Usage
Ifasingleclassisspecified,thepriority,rate,andburstsizethathasbeenprogrammedinhardwarefor
thatclasswillbeshown.
Examples
ApplyingthedefaultCoPPpolicyanddisplayingstatisticsforallclassesintheactivelyappliedpolicy:
Theratedisplayedistheactualrateinhardware.
| switch#         | config |             | terminal    |             |            |         |     |     |
| --------------- | ------ | ----------- | ----------- | ----------- | ---------- | ------- | --- | --- |
| switch(config)# |        |             | apply       | copp-policy |            | default |     |     |
| switch(config)# |        |             | exit        |             |            |         |     |     |
| switch#         | show   | copp-policy |             | statistics  |            |         |     |     |
| Statistics      |        | for         | CoPP policy |             | 'default': |         |     |     |
Totals:
| packets |     | passed | :   | 1000 |     |     | packets dropped | : 1500 |
| ------- | --- | ------ | --- | ---- | --- | --- | --------------- | ------ |
Class: default
| packets |     | passed | :   | 400 |     |     | packets dropped | : 600 |
| ------- | --- | ------ | --- | --- | --- | --- | --------------- | ----- |
Class: acl-logging
| packets |     | passed | :   | 100 |     |     | packets dropped | : 100 |
| ------- | --- | ------ | --- | --- | --- | --- | --------------- | ----- |
Class: arp-broadcast
| packets |           | passed | :       | 500 |            |     | packets dropped | : 800 |
| ------- | --------- | ------ | ------- | --- | ---------- | --- | --------------- | ----- |
|         | <--OUTPUT |        | OMITTED | FOR | BREVITY--> |     |                 |       |
Displayingstatisticsforthedefaultclassintheactivepolicy:
| switch(config)# |     |     | show copp-policy |     |            | statistics | default-class |     |
| --------------- | --- | --- | ---------------- | --- | ---------- | ---------- | ------------- | --- |
| Statistics      |     | for | CoPP policy      |     | 'default': |            |               |     |
Class: default
| Description: |       | Default |        |     |      |     |                 |       |
| ------------ | ----- | ------- | ------ | --- | ---- | --- | --------------- | ----- |
| priority     |       |         |        | :   | 2    |     |                 |       |
| rate         | (pps) |         |        | :   | 4225 |     |                 |       |
| burst        |       | size    | (pkts) | :   | 528  |     |                 |       |
| packets      |       | passed  | :      | 400 |      |     | packets dropped | : 600 |
Displayingstatisticsfortheclassarp-broadcastintheactivelyappliedpolicy:
| switch#    | show | copp-policy |             | statistics |            | class | arp-broadcast |     |
| ---------- | ---- | ----------- | ----------- | ---------- | ---------- | ----- | ------------- | --- |
| Statistics |      | for         | CoPP policy |            | 'default': |       |               |     |
Class: arp-broadcast
| Description: |       | Address | Resolution |     | Protocol |     | broadcast |     |
| ------------ | ----- | ------- | ---------- | --- | -------- | --- | --------- | --- |
| priority     |       |         |            | :   | 2        |     |           |     |
| rate         | (pps) |         |            | :   | 1250     |     |           |     |
| burst        |       | size    | (pkts)     | :   | 1250     |     |           |     |
AOS-CX10.16.xxxxCoPPGuide|(5420,6200,6300,6400Switches) 23

| packets             | passed               | : 500   |              | packets dropped | : 800 |
| ------------------- | -------------------- | ------- | ------------ | --------------- | ----- |
| Command History     |                      |         |              |                 |       |
| Release             |                      |         | Modification |                 |       |
| 10.07orearlier      |                      |         | --           |                 |       |
| Command Information |                      |         |              |                 |       |
| Platforms           | Command              | context | Authority    |                 |       |
| Allplatforms        | Operator(>)orManager |         |              |                 |       |
(#)
| show tech      | copp |     |     |     |     |
| -------------- | ---- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| show tech copp |      |     |     |     |     |
Description
DisplaystheoutputofallshowcommandssupportedbyCoPP.
Examples
Capturingthecommandoutputintoalocalfile:
switch#
| show | tech | copp local-file |     |     |     |
| ---- | ---- | --------------- | --- | --- | --- |
Show Tech output stored in local-file. Please use 'copy show-tech local-file' to
| copy-out     | this file. |            |     |     |     |
| ------------ | ---------- | ---------- | --- | --- | --- |
| switch# copy | show-tech  | local-file | ?   |     |     |
| REMOTE_URL   | URL        | of syntax  |     |     |     |
{tftp://|sftp://USER@}{IP|HOST}[:PORT][;blocksize=VAL]/FILE
| STORAGE_URL         | URL       | of syntax  | usb:/file    |     |     |
| ------------------- | --------- | ---------- | ------------ | --- | --- |
| switch# copy        | show-tech | local-file |              |     |     |
| Command History     |           |            |              |     |     |
| Release             |           |            | Modification |     |     |
| 10.07orearlier      |           |            | --           |     |     |
| Command Information |           |            |              |     |     |
| Platforms           | Command   | context    | Authority    |     |     |
Allplatforms Manager(#) Administratorsorlocalusergroupmemberswithexecution
rightsforthiscommand.
ControlPlanePolicing(CoPP)|24

Chapter 3

Support and Other Resources

Support and Other Resources

Accessing HPE Aruba Networking Support

HPE Aruba Networking Support Services

https://www.hpe.com/us/en/networking/hpe-aruba-networking-
support-services.html

AOS-CX Switch Software Documentation
Portal

https://arubanetworking.hpe.com/techdocs/AOS-CX/help_
portal/Content/home.htm

HPE Aruba Networking Support Portal

https://networkingsupport.hpe.com/home

North America telephone

1-800-943-4526 (US & Canada Toll-Free Number)

+1-650-750-0350 (Backup—Toll Number)

International telephone

https://www.hpe.com/psnow/doc/a50011948enw

Be sure to collect the following information before contacting Support:

n Technical support registration number (if applicable)

n Product name, model or version, and serial number

n Operating system name and version

n Firmware version

n Error messages

n Product-specific reports and logs

n Add-on products or components

n Third-party products or components

Other useful sites

Other websites that can be used to find information:

https://developer.arubanetworks.com/hpe-aruba-networking-aoscx/docs/about

https://community.arubanetworks.com/

Videos on new features introduced in this release:

https://www.youtube.com/playlist?list=PLsYGHuNuBZcbWPEjjHuVMqP-Q_UL3CskS

HPE Aruba
Networking
Developer Hub

Airheads social
forums and
Knowledge Base

AOS-CX

Software

Technical

Update channel

on YouTube.

AOS-CX 10.16.xxxx CoPP Guide | (5420, 6200, 6300, 6400 Switches)

25

HPEAruba https://arubanetworking.hpe.com/techdocs/hardware/DocumentationPortal/Content/home.
| Networking | htmm |     |
| ---------- | ---- | --- |
Hardware
Documentation
andTranslations
Portal
| HPEAruba | https://networkingsupport.hpe.com/downloads |     |
| -------- | ------------------------------------------- | --- |
Networking
software
| Software | https://licensemanagement.hpe.com/ |     |
| -------- | ---------------------------------- | --- |
licensingand
FeaturePacks
| End-of-Life | https://networkingsupport.hpe.com/end-of-life |     |
| ----------- | --------------------------------------------- | --- |
information
| Accessing | Updates |     |
| --------- | ------- | --- |
YoucanaccessupdatesfromtheHPEArubaNetworkingSupportPortalat
https://networkingsupport.hpe.com.
Somesoftwareproductsprovideamechanismforaccessingsoftwareupdatesthroughtheproduct
interface.Reviewyourproductdocumentationtoidentifytherecommendedsoftwareupdatemethod.
TosubscribetoeNewslettersandalerts:
https://networkingsupport.hpe./notifications/subscriptions(requiresanactiveHPEArubaNetworking
SupportPortalaccounttomanagesubscriptions).SecuritynoticesareviewablewithoutanHPEAruba
NetworkingSupportPortalaccount.
| Warranty | Information |     |
| -------- | ----------- | --- |
Toviewwarrantyinformationforyourproduct,gotohttps://www.arubanetworks.com/support-
services/product-warranties/.
| Regulatory | Information |     |
| ---------- | ----------- | --- |
Toviewtheregulatoryinformationforyourproduct,viewtheSafetyandComplianceInformationfor
Server,Storage,Power,Networking,andRackProducts,availableathttps://www.hpe.com/support/Safety-
Compliance-EnterpriseProducts
| Additional | regulatory | information |
| ---------- | ---------- | ----------- |
HPEArubaNetworkingiscommittedtoprovidingourcustomerswithinformationaboutthechemical
substancesinourproductsasneededtocomplywithlegalrequirements,environmentaldata(company
programs,productrecycling,energyefficiency),andsafetyinformationandcompliancedata,(RoHSand
WEEE).Formoreinformation,seehttps://www.arubanetworks.com/company/about-us/environmental-
citizenship/.
| Documentation |     | Feedback |
| ------------- | --- | -------- |
HPEArubaNetworkingiscommittedtoprovidingdocumentationthatmeetsyourneeds.Tohelpus
improvethedocumentation,sendanyerrors,suggestions,orcommentstoDocumentationFeedback
SupportandOtherResources|26

(docsfeedback-switching@hpe.com). When submitting your feedback, include the document title, part
number, edition, and publication date located on the front cover of the document. For online help
content, include the product name, product version, help edition, and publication date located on the
legal notices page.

AOS-CX 10.16.xxxx CoPP Guide | (5420, 6200, 6300, 6400 Switches)

27