AOS-CX 10.16 Monitoring
Guide

8100, 83xx, 8360, 9300S, 10000 Switch Series

Published: May 2025

Version: 1

Copyright Information

© Copyright 2025 Hewlett Packard Enterprise Development LP.

This product includes code licensed under certain open source licenses which require source
compliance. The corresponding source for these components is available upon request. This offer is
valid to anyone in receipt of this information and shall expire three years following the date of the final
distribution of this product version by Hewlett Packard Enterprise Company. To obtain such source
code, please check if the code is available in the HPE Software Center at
https://myenterpriselicense.hpe.com/cwp-ui/software but, if not, send a written request for specific
software version and product for which you want the open source code. Along with the request, please
send a check or money order in the amount of US $10.00 to:

Hewlett Packard Enterprise Company
Attn: General Counsel
WW Corporate Headquarters
1701 E Mossy Oaks Rd Spring, TX 77389
United States of America.

| 2

Notices

The information contained herein is subject to change without notice. The only warranties for Hewlett
Packard Enterprise products and services are set forth in the express warranty statements
accompanying such products and services. Nothing herein should be construed as constituting an
additional warranty. Hewlett Packard Enterprise shall not be liable for technical or editorial errors or
omissions contained herein.

Confidential computer software. Valid license from Hewlett Packard Enterprise required for possession,
use, or copying. Consistent with FAR 12.211 and 12.212, Commercial Computer Software, Computer
Software Documentation, and Technical Data for Commercial Items are licensed to the U.S. Government
under vendor's standard commercial license.

Links to third-party websites take you outside the Hewlett Packard Enterprise website. Hewlett Packard
Enterprise has no control over and is not responsible for information outside the Hewlett Packard
Enterprise website.

Acknowledgment

Intel®, Itanium®, Optane™, Pentium®, Xeon®, Intel Inside®, and the Intel Inside logo are trademarks of
Intel Corporation in the U.S. and other countries.

Microsoft® and Windows® are either registered trademarks or trademarks of Microsoft Corporation in
the United States and/or other countries.

Adobe® and Acrobat® are trademarks of Adobe Systems Incorporated.

Java® and Oracle® are registered trademarks of Oracle and/or its affiliates.

UNIX® is a registered trademark of The Open Group.

All third-party marks are property of their respective owners.

AOS-CX 10.16 Monitoring Guide | (8100, 83xx, 9300S, 10000 Switch Series)

3

Contents
| About this      | document                         | 6   |
| --------------- | -------------------------------- | --- |
| Queuemonitoring |                                  | 7   |
|                 | Overview                         | 7   |
|                 | Queuemonitoring                  | 7   |
|                 | Queuestatisticshistory           | 7   |
|                 | Queuedepth                       | 7   |
|                 | Dataretentionlimits              | 7   |
|                 | Usingcollecteddata               | 7   |
|                 | Congestioneventdetection         | 8   |
|                 | Congestioneventconfiguration     | 8   |
|                 | Usingcongestionevents            | 8   |
|                 | Congestioneventdetectioncommands | 8   |
|                 | applycongestion-eventprofile     | 8   |
|                 | congestion-eventprofile          | 10  |
|                 | event-config-id                  | 11  |
|                 | showcongestion-eventprofile      | 13  |
|                 | showinterfacecongestion-event    | 14  |
|                 | showcongestion-event             | 16  |
|                 | showcongestion-event<id>         | 19  |
5
AOS-CX10.16MonitoringGuide| (8100,83xx,9300S,10000SwitchSeries)

Chapter 1

About this document

About this document

This document describes features of the AOS-CX network operating system. It is intended for
administrators responsible for installing, configuring, and managing Aruba switches on a network.

AOS-CX 10.16 Monitoring Guide | (8100, 83xx, 9300S, 10000 Switch Series)

6

Chapter 2

Queue monitoring

Overview

AOS-CX provides multiple features that assist with monitoring queuing behavior such as Queue
Monitoring and an extension of it – Congestion Event Detection.

Queue monitoring

The Queue Monitoring feature provides an ongoing collection of queue depth, queue statistics and
storage of those statistics, in a time-series database. The time-series data is available for viewing on-
switch and provides a history of what has occurred in each of the monitored queues. Queue depth data,
accessible on the switch for reviewing the queue statistics history, helps with identifying network issues
or behavior patterns.

Queue statistics history

Queue monitoring stores collected queue depth data in a time-series database within the switch. This
data, accessible on the switch for reviewing the queue statistics history, helps with identifying network
issues or behavior patterns.

Queue depth

Queue depth is the memory size required to buffer packets in a queue during congestion. The value
changes depending on the arrival rate of the packets destined to egress a given queue, and the rate at
which that queue is able to transmit packets.

Data retention limits

Data retention limits are enforced within the switch by reducing time precision of the stored data within
specific windows of time. The retention duration for queue statistics data is derived from the frequency
of the polling interval.

Table 1: Queue monitoring data retention schedule

Polling interval

Maximum statistic age

10 seconds

8 hours

The switch has limited storage for retaining information. For longer monitoring durations, use an external

monitor with the queue monitoring feature to collect and store data.

Using collected data

Queue monitoring provides the ability to look into switch congestion-related performance issues and
identify when problems have occurred. The methods available for reviewing performance issues are:

AOS-CX 10.16 Monitoring Guide | (8100, 83xx, 9300S, 10000 Switch Series)

7

n Congestion events

n Per-interface congestion histograms

n Per-interface congestion-detailed view

As anomalies are identified, the interface queue that experienced the anomaly is the starting point for
identifying the cause of the behavior. Examine traffic patterns for flows competing for network
bandwidth to determine if corrective action is needed to address potential problems.

Congestion event detection

The Congestion Event Detection feature is an extension of Queue Monitoring that allows users to
configure alert thresholds for queue depth, queue rate, and queue drops. Alerts can be viewed on-
switch and can also be sent to the switch event log on a selective basis.

Congestion event configuration

The congestion event detection feature is configured with the threshold condition(s) under which an
event occurrence starts, ends, and is measured. Each congestion event profile is comprised of zero or
more congestion event entries.

Congestion event profile

A congestion event profile entry has a Valid status if all the required fields are specified with values that
pass validation rules, otherwise, the congestion event profile entry status shows as Invalid. Each
congestion event profile entry must specify the following information:

n type

n trigger threshold

n reset threshold

n units for provided values

n retention group

n action (optional)

Using congestion events

A congestion event represents a single occurrence of conditions on an interface queue where a
configured threshold was violated. Configured thresholds are specified as part of a congestion event
profile and are applied on a per-interface basis along with queue monitoring. When a congestion event
occurs, relevant data is collected and stored as an event occurrence within the congestion event
retention group for later analysis. The switch provides 3 retention groups for storing event occurrences,
to be used however desired. One effective method is to treat them as "low", "medium", and "high"
severity event occurrence storage. This method allows to quickly check the switch for specific severity
events using the show congestion-event retention-group <NUMBER> command.

Once a congestion event retention group has reached the limit of 1000 stored events, the oldest completed event

occurrence in the group is discarded in order to store a new event.

Congestion event detection commands

apply congestion-event profile

apply congestion-event profile [<NAME>]
no apply congestion-event profile [<NAME>]

| 8

Description
Appliesacongestioneventprofiletoaninterface.
Thenoformremovesthecongestioneventprofilefromtheinterface.
Parameter Description
<NAME> Specifiesthenameofacongestioneventprofile.
Range:1to64alphanumericcharacters,includingperiod
(.),underscore(_),andhyphen(-).
Usage
Inorderforthecongestioneventprofileentryassociatedwithanappliedcongestioneventprofiletobe
effective,theinterfaceneedstobeconfiguredforqueue-monitor.Oncethequeuestatisticsarebeing
monitored,applythecongestioneventprofiletotheinterfacetobegintheprocessofactivelychecking
themonitoredqueuestatisticsforcongestioneventsbasedonthethresholdsconfiguredintheapplied
congestioneventprofile.User-specifiedcongestioneventprofilesandprofileentriesmaybemodified
anddeletedwhileappliedonaninterface.Ifacongestioneventprofileorentryismodifiedwhile
appliedonaninterface,anyongoingeventoccurrenceswillendimmediately.
Examples
Applyingcongestioneventprofile,prof1,toaninterfacewherethequeuesontheinterfacehavea
monitoringsource:
| switch(config-if)# | apply | congestion-event | profile prof1 |
| ------------------ | ----- | ---------------- | ------------- |
Applyingnon-existentcongestioneventprofile,prof22,toaninterface:
| switch(config-if)# | apply    | congestion-event | profile prof22 |
| ------------------ | -------- | ---------------- | -------------- |
| Profile prof22     | does not | exist.           |                |
Applyingcongestioneventprofile,prof1,toaninterfacewherethequeuesontheinterfacedonothave
aqueuedatamonitoringsource.Withoutasourceforqueuestatistics,nocongestioneventthreshold
checkingwillbeperformed.
| switch(config-if)# | apply | congestion-event | profile prof1 |
| ------------------ | ----- | ---------------- | ------------- |
Warning: Queue monitoring must also be enabled using the 'queue-monitor' command
| for congestion | events | to be detected. |     |
| -------------- | ------ | --------------- | --- |
Removinganycongestioneventprofilefromaninterface.
| switch(config-if)# | no  | apply congestion-event | profile |
| ------------------ | --- | ---------------------- | ------- |
Removingcongestioneventprofile,prof1,fromaninterface:
| switch(config-if)# | no  | apply congestion-event | profile prof1 |
| ------------------ | --- | ---------------------- | ------------- |
AOS-CX10.16MonitoringGuide|(8100,83xx,9300S,10000SwitchSeries) 9

Removingcongestioneventprofile,prof2,fromaninterfacewherecongestioneventprofile,prof1,is
currentlyapplied.
| switch(config-if)# |     | no apply congestion-event |     | profile prof2 |
| ------------------ | --- | ------------------------- | --- | ------------- |
The profile to remove does not match the currently configured profile.
| Command History     |         |         |                   |     |
| ------------------- | ------- | ------- | ----------------- | --- |
| Release             |         |         | Modification      |     |
| 10.16               |         |         | Commandintroduced |     |
| Command Information |         |         |                   |     |
| Platforms           | Command | context | Authority         |     |
8325 config-if Administratorsorlocalusergroupmemberswithexecution
| 8325H |     |     | rightsforthiscommand. |     |
| ----- | --- | --- | --------------------- | --- |
8325P
10000
| congestion-event    | profile |        |     |     |
| ------------------- | ------- | ------ | --- | --- |
| congestion-event    | profile | <NAME> |     |     |
| no congestion-event | profile | <NAME> |     |     |
Description
Createsanewcongestioneventprofileandswitchestotheconfig-cng-profcontextfortheprofile.
Thenoformdeletestheprofileandremovesitfromallappliedinterfaces.
Ifthespecifiedprofilealreadyexists,thiscommandswitchestotheconfig-cng-profcontextforthenamed
profile.
| Parameter |     |     | Description                                       |     |
| --------- | --- | --- | ------------------------------------------------- | --- |
| <name>    |     |     | Nameofthecongestioneventprofile,upto64characters. |     |
Usage
Acongestioneventprofilecontainszeroormorecongestionevententriesthatspecifythethresholdsto
useforidentifyingconditionsofinterestthatshouldbesavedasaneventoccurrence.Useshow
congestion-event profile [NAME]toviewthestatusofallcongestioneventprofilesortheirsettings.
Examples
Creatingacongestion-eventprofilenamedprof1:
| switch(config)# | congestion-event |     | profile prof1 |     |
| --------------- | ---------------- | --- | ------------- | --- |
Deletingacongestioneventprofilenamedprof1:
|10

| switch(config)# | no  | congestion-event |     |     | profile prof1 |
| --------------- | --- | ---------------- | --- | --- | ------------- |
Creatingacongestioneventprofilewithaninvalidname:
| switch(config)#     | congestion-event |         |          | profile           | prof##                    |
| ------------------- | ---------------- | ------- | -------- | ----------------- | ------------------------- |
| Invalid name.       | Please           | enter   | a string |                   | of up to 64 alphanumeric, |
| underscore,         | hyphen,          | and     | period   | characters.       |                           |
| Command History     |                  |         |          |                   |                           |
| Release             |                  |         |          | Modification      |                           |
| 10.16               |                  |         |          | Commandintroduced |                           |
| Command Information |                  |         |          |                   |                           |
| Platforms           | Command          | context |          | Authority         |                           |
8325 config Administratorsorlocalusergroupmemberswithexecution
| 8325H |     |     |     | rightsforthiscommand. |     |
| ----- | --- | --- | --- | --------------------- | --- |
8325P
10000
event-config-id
event-config-id {<event-type>} | {trigger <units> <value>} | [reset <units> <value>] |
[retention-group <retention-group>] | [action <action> <action-parameter>]
no event-config-id [<event-type>] [trigger <units> <value>] | [reset <units> <value>] |
[retention-group <retention-group>] | [action <action> <action-parameter>]
Description
Createsanewcongestioneventprofileentryassociatedwiththecurrentcongestioneventprofile.
Thenoformdeletesthecongestionevententryfromthecongestioneventprofile.
| Parameter  |     |     |     |     | Description                                       |
| ---------- | --- | --- | --- | --- | ------------------------------------------------- |
| event-type |     |     |     |     | Specifiesthetypeofcongestionevent.Congestionevent |
typesincludethefollowing:
n queue-depth
n queue-drop
n queue-tx-rate
[trigger <units> <value>] Specifiestheunitsandvalueforthequeuestatistic
triggerthreshold.
| [reset <units> | <value>] |     |     |     |     |
| -------------- | -------- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
Specifiestheunitsandvalueforthequeuestatisticreset
threshold.Ifnotprovided,theresetvalueandunitswill
beassignedthesamevaluesasthetriggerunitsand
value.
Note:Unitsforthetriggerandresetvaluesmustbe
AOS-CX10.16MonitoringGuide|(8100,83xx,9300S,10000SwitchSeries) 11

Parameter

Description

[retention-group <retention-group-id>]

[action <action> <action-parameter>]

equal to or below the trigger value to have a valid
congestion event entry.

(Optional) Specifies the retention group used to store
congestion event occurrences for the congestion event
entry. If no retention group is provided, congestion event
retention group 1 will be used.

Specifies an action to take when a congestion event
occurs. Available actions and their corresponding
parameters:

n eventlog: Logs an event to the system eventlog which

may be seen with show events.

The action parameter specifies at which level to log a
message:

n info (informational level)
n warn (warning level)
n crit (critical level)

Note: If no action is specified, no action is taken with
event occurrences.

Examples

Configuring congestion event entries for queue-depth:

switch(config-cng-prof)# queue-depth trigger kbytes 3000 reset kbytes 2000
retention-group 2 action eventlog crit
switch(config-cng-prof)# 7 queue-depth trigger kbytes 5000 reset kbytes 1000

Removing the congestion event entry with ID 7:

switch(config-cng-prof)# no 7

Configuring congestion event entries for queue-drops:

switch(config-cng-prof)# 2 queue-drops trigger packets 20 reset packets 10
retention-group 3

Removing the congestion event entry with ID 2:

switch(config-cng-prof)# no 2

Configuring congestion event entries for queue-tx-rate:

switch(config-cng-prof)# 5 queue-tx-rate trigger kbps 200000 retention-group 1
action eventlog info

| 12

switch(config-cng-prof)# queue-tx-rate trigger pps 7800 reset pps 5000 retention-
| group 3 |     |     |     |
| ------- | --- | --- | --- |
RemovingthecongestionevententrywithID5:
| switch(config-cng-prof)# |         | no 5    |                   |
| ------------------------ | ------- | ------- | ----------------- |
| Command History          |         |         |                   |
| Release                  |         |         | Modification      |
| 10.16                    |         |         | Commandintroduced |
| Command Information      |         |         |                   |
| Platforms                | Command | context | Authority         |
8100 config Administratorsorlocalusergroupmemberswithexecution
| 8325 |     |     | rightsforthiscommand. |
| ---- | --- | --- | --------------------- |
8325H
8325P
8360
9300
10000
| show congestion-event |     | profile          |     |
| --------------------- | --- | ---------------- | --- |
| show congestion-event |     | profile [<NAME>] |     |
Description
Showsthestatusofallcongestioneventprofiles,orthesettingsofaspecificcongestioneventprofile.
| Parameter |     |     | Description |
| --------- | --- | --- | ----------- |
<NAME>
Specifiesthenameofacongestioneventprofile.
Range:1to64alphanumericcharacters,includingperiod
(.),underscore(_),andhyphen(-).
Usage
Thestatusofeachcongestionevententrycanbeoneofthefollowing:
n Valid-thecongestionevententryisvalid.
Invalid-thecongestionevententryisinvalid.
n
Usetheshow congestion-event profile <NAME>commandtoseedetailsabouteachcongestionevent
entryandreasonsforrejection.
Examples
AOS-CX10.16MonitoringGuide|(8100,83xx,9300S,10000SwitchSeries) 13

Showingthestatusofallcongestioneventprofiles.ThenumbersprovidedinConfig Entry Statusfield
showthecountofhowmanyentriesarecurrentlyineachstatus.
| switch#    | show congestion-event  |           |        | profile |     |     |     |     |     |
| ---------- | ---------------------- | --------- | ------ | ------- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| Name       | Config                 | Entry     | Status |         |     |     |     |     |     |
| ---------- | ---------------------- |           |        |         |     |     |     |     |     |
| prof1      | 2 Valid                |           |        |         |     |     |     |     |     |
| prof2      | 1 Valid,               | 1 Invalid |        |         |     |     |     |     |     |
| prof3      | -                      |           |        |         |     |     |     |     |     |
Showingthestatusofcongestioneventprofileprof1:
| switch# | show congestion-event |               |     | profile | prof1 |     |     |     |     |
| ------- | --------------------- | ------------- | --- | ------- | ----- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| Profile | Name                  | : prof1       |     |         |       |     |     |     |     |
| Applied | Interfaces            | : 1/1/1-1/1/3 |     |         |       |     |     |     |     |
Retention
| ID State   | Event Type     |     |     | Trigger   |        | Reset      |        | Group | Action        |
| ---------- | -------------- | --- | --- | --------- | ------ | ---------- | ------ | ----- | ------------- |
| -- ------  | -------------- |     |     | --------- |        | ---------- |        | ----  | ------        |
| *1 Invalid | Queue Depth    |     |     | -         |        | -          |        | -     | eventlog/crit |
| 2 Valid    | Queue Depth    |     |     | 12345     | kbytes | 12345      | kbytes | 2     | -             |
| 3 Valid    | Queue Drops    |     |     | 1234      | pkts   | 123        | pkts   | 1     | -             |
| *4 Invalid | Queue Drops    |     |     | 600       | pkts   | 50         | pkts   | -     | eventlog/info |
7 Valid Average Queue Tx Rate 75% line rate 50% line rate 1 eventlog/error
| 8 Valid     | Average     | Queue     | Tx Rate | 12345             | pps  | 1234   | pps  | 2   | -   |
| ----------- | ----------- | --------- | ------- | ----------------- | ---- | ------ | ---- | --- | --- |
| 9 Valid     | Average     | Queue     | Tx Rate | 54321             | kbps | 54321  | kbps | 2   | -   |
| *1: Missing | value:      | trigger,  | reset,  | retention         |      | group. |      |     |     |
| *4: Missing | value:      | retention | group.  |                   |      |        |      |     |     |
| Command     | History     |           |         |                   |      |        |      |     |     |
| Release     |             |           |         | Modification      |      |        |      |     |     |
| 10.16       |             |           |         | Commandintroduced |      |        |      |     |     |
| Command     | Information |           |         |                   |      |        |      |     |     |
| Platforms   | Command     | context   |         | Authority         |      |        |      |     |     |
8325 Operator(>)orManager Administratorsorlocalusergroupmemberswithexecution
| 8325H | (#) |     |     | rightsforthiscommand. |     |     |     |     |     |
| ----- | --- | --- | --- | --------------------- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
8325P
10000
| show interface | congestion-event |                  |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |
| -------------- | ---------------- | ---------------- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| show interface | [<IFNAME>]       | congestion-event |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |
Description
Displaysthecongestioneventstatusonaninterface.
|14

| Parameter |     |     | Description                     |     |
| --------- | --- | --- | ------------------------------- | --- |
| <IFNAME>  |     |     | Specifiesthenameoftheinterface. |     |
Examples
Displayingthecongestioneventstatusonaninterfacethatdoesnothaveacongestioneventprofile
applied:
switch#
|     | show interface | 1/1/1 congestion-event |     |     |
| --- | -------------- | ---------------------- | --- | --- |
Interface 1/1/1 does not have a congestion event profile applied.
Displayingthecongestioneventstatusonaninterfacethatisnotcurrentlymonitoringqueuestatistics
andhasacongestioneventprofileapplied:
| switch#    | show interface | 1/1/1 congestion-event |     |     |
| ---------- | -------------- | ---------------------- | --- | --- |
| Congestion | Event Profile  | : cng_event_prof1      |     |     |
Queue 0-7
| Aggregation | Interval | :   |     |     |
| ----------- | -------- | --- | --- | --- |
| Data Source |          | :   |     |     |
| Event Types |          | :   |     |     |
Status : Not Applied (No queue monitoring source for event data)
Displayingthecongestioneventstatusonaninterfacethatisdown:
switch#
|            | show interface | 1/1/1 congestion-event |     |     |
| ---------- | -------------- | ---------------------- | --- | --- |
| Congestion | Event Profile  | : cng_event_prof1      |     |     |
Queue 0-7
| Aggregation | Interval | :             |            |          |
| ----------- | -------- | ------------- | ---------- | -------- |
| Data Source |          | :             |            |          |
| Event Types |          | :             |            |          |
| Status      |          | : Not Applied | (Interface | is down) |
Displayingthecongestioneventstatusonaninterfacewheretheappliedcongestioneventprofile
containsonlyinvalidentries:
| switch#    | show interface | 1/1/1 congestion-event |     |     |
| ---------- | -------------- | ---------------------- | --- | --- |
| Congestion | Event Profile  | : cng_event_prof1      |     |     |
Queue 0-7
| Aggregation | Interval | :   |     |     |
| ----------- | -------- | --- | --- | --- |
| Data Source |          | :   |     |     |
| Event Types |          | :   |     |     |
Status : Not Applied (2 invalid entries in congestion-event profile)
Displayingthecongestioneventstatusonaninterfacethatisactivelycollectingqueuestatisticswith
queuemonitoring,butsomeentriesintheappliedprofileareinvalid:
| switch#    | show interface | 1/1/1 congestion-event |     |     |
| ---------- | -------------- | ---------------------- | --- | --- |
| Congestion | Event Profile  | : cng_event_prof1      |     |     |
Queue 0-7
| Aggregation | Interval | : 10s           |              |               |
| ----------- | -------- | --------------- | ------------ | ------------- |
| Data Source |          | : queue-monitor |              |               |
| Event Types |          | : queue-depth,  | queue-drops, | queue-tx-rate |
AOS-CX10.16MonitoringGuide|(8100,83xx,9300S,10000SwitchSeries) 15

Status : Partially Applied (1 invalid entry in congestion-event
profile)
Displayingthecongestioneventstatusonaninterfacethatisactivelycollectingqueuestatisticswith
queuemonitoring:
switch#
|             | show interface | 1/1/1 congestion-event |              |               |
| ----------- | -------------- | ---------------------- | ------------ | ------------- |
| Congestion  | Event Profile  | : cng_event_prof1      |              |               |
| Queue 0-7   |                |                        |              |               |
| Aggregation | Interval       | : 10s                  |              |               |
| Data Source |                | : queue-monitor        |              |               |
| Event Types |                | : queue-depth,         | queue-drops, | queue-tx-rate |
| Status      |                | : Applied              |              |               |
Displayingcongestioneventstatusonallinterfaces:
| switch#     | show interface | congestion-event  |                   |               |
| ----------- | -------------- | ----------------- | ----------------- | ------------- |
| Interface   | 1/1/1          |                   |                   |               |
| Congestion  | Event Profile  | : cng_event_prof1 |                   |               |
| Queue 0-7   |                |                   |                   |               |
| Aggregation | Interval       | : 10s             |                   |               |
| Data Source |                | : queue-monitor   |                   |               |
| Event Types |                | : queue-depth,    | queue-drops,      | queue-tx-rate |
| Status      |                | : Applied         |                   |               |
| Interface   | 1/1/2          |                   |                   |               |
| Congestion  | Event Profile  | : cng_event_prof1 |                   |               |
| Queue 0-7   |                |                   |                   |               |
| Aggregation | Interval       | : 10s             |                   |               |
| Data Source |                | : queue-monitor   |                   |               |
| Event Types |                | : queue-depth,    | queue-drops,      | queue-tx-rate |
| Status      |                | : Applied         |                   |               |
| Command     | History        |                   |                   |               |
| Release     |                |                   | Modification      |               |
| 10.16       |                |                   | Commandintroduced |               |
| Command     | Information    |                   |                   |               |
| Platforms   | Command        | context           | Authority         |               |
8325 Operator(>)orManager Administratorsorlocalusergroupmemberswithexecution
| 8325H | (#) |     | rightsforthiscommand. |     |
| ----- | --- | --- | --------------------- | --- |
8325P
10000
show congestion-event
show congestion-event
filter [since <time-value> | {seconds|minutes|hours|days}] | [state
{ongoing|complete}] | [interface <ifname|ifrange>] | [queue <queues>][retention-group
<retention-group>] | [type {queue-tx-rate|queue-drops|queue-depth}]
|16

Description
Showscongestioneventsthathaveoccurred.
| Parameter |     |     | Description |     |     |
| --------- | --- | --- | ----------- | --- | --- |
[since <time-value> {seconds|minutes|hours|days}] Filterstheoutputbyonlydisplayingevent
occurrencesthatwereupdatedequaltoor
laterthanthetimegiven,where<time-
value>and
{seconds|minutes|hours|days}specifies
howfarbackwardtolookforevents,
relativetothecurrenttime.
| [state {ongoing|complete}] |     |     | Filterseventoccurrencesbasedon |     |     |
| -------------------------- | --- | --- | ------------------------------ | --- | --- |
whethertheeventoccurrenceisongoing
orcomplete(ended).
[interface <ifname|ifrange>] Specifiesthenameoftheinterfaceor
rangeofinterfaces.
| [queue <queues>] |     |     | Filterseventoccurrencesbasedonthe |     |     |
| ---------------- | --- | --- | --------------------------------- | --- | --- |
queue(s)wheretheevent
occurred.
Range:0to7.
[retention-group <retention-group>] Filterseventoccurrencesbasedonthe
retentiongroupwheretheyarestored.
[type {queue-tx-rate|queue-drops|queue-depth}] Filterseventoccurrencesbasedonthetype
ofeventthatoccurred.
Usage
Formoredetailedinformationonaneventoccurrence,usetheshow congestion-event <id>
command.
Examples
Displayingallcongestioneventoccurrences,butnonematchingtheprovidedfiltershaveoccurredyet:
| 8325(config-cng-prof)# |              | show congestion-event |     |     |     |
| ---------------------- | ------------ | --------------------- | --- | --- | --- |
| Matching               | Event Count: | 0                     |     |     |     |
```
| Display | all of the | congestion event | occurrences. |     |     |
| ------- | ---------- | ---------------- | ------------ | --- | --- |
```
| switch#  | show congestion-event |     |     |     |     |
| -------- | --------------------- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| Matching | Event Count:          | 4   |     |     |     |
O - Ongoing
C - Complete
| ID Start | time | Duration | Type | Interface | Queue Value |
| -------- | ---- | -------- | ---- | --------- | ----------- |
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------
---------
| 124 10 | seconds ago | 10s (O) | Queue Depth | 1/1/1 | 3   |
| ------ | ----------- | ------- | ----------- | ----- | --- |
123456 kbytes
122 20 minutes ago 20m (O) Average Queue Tx Rate 1/1/2 1 9283
kbps
AOS-CX10.16MonitoringGuide|(8100,83xx,9300S,10000SwitchSeries) 17

3 minutes ago

123
728394 kbytes
121
pkts

1 hour ago

50m (C)

Queue Depth

2m (C)

Queue Drops

1/1/4

1/1/7

6

7

6233

Displaying all congestion event occurrences that were updated in the last 5 minutes on interfaces
1/1/1 and 1/1/4:

switch# show congestion-event filter since 5 minutes interface 1/1/1,1/1/4
Matching Event Count: 2

O - Ongoing
C - Complete

Duration

Start time

ID
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------
--
124
123

10 seconds ago
2 days ago

123456 kbytes
728394 kbytes

Queue Depth
Queue Depth

10s (O)
2m (C)

1/1/1
1/1/4

Interface

Value

Queue

Type

3
6

Displaying all congestion event occurrences that are still ongoing:

switch# show congestion-event filter state ongoing
Matching Event Count: 2

O - Ongoing
C - Complete

Duration

Start time

ID
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------
--
124
kbytes
122

Average Queue Tx Rate 1/1/2

10 seconds ago 10s (O)

20 minutes ago 20m (O)

Interface Queue

Queue Depth

9283 kbps

123456

1/1/1

Value

Type

1

3

Displaying all congestion event occurrences on interface 1/1/4:

switch# show congestion-event filter interface 1/1/4
Matching Event Count: 1

O - Ongoing
C - Complete

Start time

ID
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------
--
123

728394 kbytes

3 hours ago

Queue Depth

Interface

Duration

10s (C)

Queue

1/1/4

Value

Type

6

Displaying all congestion event occurrences on interface 1/1/1 and queue 3:

switch# show congestion-event filter interface 1/1/1 queue 3
Matching Event Count:1

O - Ongoing
C - Complete

| 18

| ID Start | time | Duration | Type | Interface | Queue Value |     |
| -------- | ---- | -------- | ---- | --------- | ----------- | --- |
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------
--
| 124 10 | minutes ago | 10m (O) | Queue Depth | 1/1/1 | 3 123456 |     |
| ------ | ----------- | ------- | ----------- | ----- | -------- | --- |
kbytes
Displayingallcongestioneventoccurrencesstoredinretention group 3andtypequeue-depth:
switch# show congestion-event filter retention-group 3 type queue-depth
| Matching | Event Count: | 1   |     |     |     |     |
| -------- | ------------ | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
O - Ongoing
C - Complete
| ID Start | time | Duration | Type | Interface | Queue Value |     |
| -------- | ---- | -------- | ---- | --------- | ----------- | --- |
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------
--
| 124 10 | seconds ago | 10s (O) | Queue Depth | 1/1/1 | 3 123456 | kbytes |
| ------ | ----------- | ------- | ----------- | ----- | -------- | ------ |
Ifthecongestionevententryincludesanactiontologtothesystemeventlog,displaytheeventlogto
viewstartandendinformationforloggedoccurrences.Displayingeventlog:
| switch# | show events |     |     |     |     |     |
| ------- | ----------- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
2024-11-01T23:43:11.778434+00:00 8325 switchd_agent[3436]: Event|1502|LOG_
INFO|AMM|1/1|Congestion event 123: start - interface 1/1/1 queue 3 - queue-depth:
5100 kbytes
2024-11-01T23:43:21.999842+00:00 8325 switchd_agent[3436]: Event|1503|LOG_
INFO|AMM|1/1|Congestion event 123: end - interface 1/1/1 queue 3 - lasted 10
| seconds   | with peak value | 65656 kbytes |                   |     |     |     |
| --------- | --------------- | ------------ | ----------------- | --- | --- | --- |
| Command   | History         |              |                   |     |     |     |
| Release   |                 |              | Modification      |     |     |     |
| 10.16     |                 |              | Commandintroduced |     |     |     |
| Command   | Information     |              |                   |     |     |     |
| Platforms | Command         | context      | Authority         |     |     |     |
8325 Operator(>)orManager Administratorsorlocalusergroupmemberswithexecution
| 8325H |     |     | rightsforthiscommand. |     |     |     |
| ----- | --- | --- | --------------------- | --- | --- | --- |
(#)
8325P
10000
| show congestion-event |     | <id> |     |     |     |     |
| --------------------- | --- | ---- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| show congestion-event |     | <id> |     |     |     |     |
Description
Showsdetailedoutputofasinglecongestioneventoccurrence.
AOS-CX10.16MonitoringGuide|(8100,83xx,9300S,10000SwitchSeries) 19

| Parameter |     |     |     | Description                                     |     |     |
| --------- | --- | --- | --- | ----------------------------------------------- | --- | --- |
| <id>      |     |     |     | Specifiesthecongestioneventoccurrencetodisplay. |     |     |
Examples
DisplayingdetailsofanongoingAverageQueueTxRatecongestioneventoccurrence:
| switch#    | show  | congestion-event |     | 123 |     |     |
| ---------- | ----- | ---------------- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| Congestion | Event | Occurrence       |     | 123 |     |     |
Event Configuration
| Data        | Source |          | :   | queue-monitor |               |     |
| ----------- | ------ | -------- | --- | ------------- | ------------- | --- |
| Aggregation |        | Interval | :   | 10s           |               |     |
| Type        |        |          | :   | Average       | Queue Tx Rate |     |
| Trigger     |        |          | :   | 12345 pps     |               |     |
| Reset       |        |          | :   | 1234 pps      |               |     |
| Retention   |        | Group    | :   | 2             |               |     |
Event Data
| Interface |      |     | :   | 1/1/1        |                 |           |
| --------- | ---- | --- | --- | ------------ | --------------- | --------- |
| Queue     |      |     | :   | 3            |                 |           |
| Start     | Time |     | :   | 10 minutes   | ago (2024-03-09 | 10:02:24) |
| End       | Time |     | :   | N/A (Ongoing | Event)          |           |
| Duration  |      |     | :   | 10m          |                 |           |
| Peak      | Time |     | :   | 2024-03-09   | 10:11:34        |           |
| Peak      |      |     | :   | 123456 pps   |                 |           |
DisplayingdetailsofacompletedQueueDepthcongestioneventoccurrence:
switch#
|            | show  | congestion-event |     | 124 |     |     |
| ---------- | ----- | ---------------- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| Congestion | Event | Occurrence       |     | 124 |     |     |
Event Configuration
| Data        | Source |          | :   | queue-monitor |     |     |
| ----------- | ------ | -------- | --- | ------------- | --- | --- |
| Aggregation |        | Interval | :   | 10s           |     |     |
| Type        |        |          | :   | Queue Depth   |     |     |
| Trigger     |        |          | :   | 12345 kbytes  |     |     |
| Reset       |        |          | :   | 1234 kbytes   |     |     |
| Retention   |        | Group    | :   | 1             |     |     |
Event Data
| Interface |      |     | :   | 1/1/2         |                 |           |
| --------- | ---- | --- | --- | ------------- | --------------- | --------- |
| Queue     |      |     | :   | 5             |                 |           |
| Start     | Time |     | :   | 20 seconds    | ago (2024-03-09 | 10:02:24) |
| End       | Time |     | :   | 10 seconds    | ago (2024-03-09 | 10:02:34) |
| Duration  |      |     | :   | 10s           |                 |           |
| Peak      | Time |     | :   | 2024-03-09    | 10:02:29        |           |
| Peak      |      |     | :   | 123456 kbytes |                 |           |
DisplayingdetailsofacompletedQueueDropcongestioneventoccurrence:
| switch#    | show  | congestion-event |     | 125 |     |     |
| ---------- | ----- | ---------------- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| Congestion | Event | Occurrence       |     | 125 |     |     |
Event Configuration
| Data | Source |     | :   | queue-monitor |     |     |
| ---- | ------ | --- | --- | ------------- | --- | --- |
|20

|       | Aggregation |      | Interval |     | : 10s        |         |             |           |
| ----- | ----------- | ---- | -------- | --- | ------------ | ------- | ----------- | --------- |
|       | Type        |      |          |     | : Queue      | Drops   |             |           |
|       | Trigger     |      |          |     | : 12345      | packets |             |           |
|       | Reset       |      |          |     | : 1234       | packets |             |           |
|       | Retention   |      | Group    |     | : 1          |         |             |           |
| Event | Data        |      |          |     |              |         |             |           |
|       | Interface   |      |          |     | : 1/1/2      |         |             |           |
|       | Queue       |      |          |     | : 5          |         |             |           |
|       | Start       | Time |          |     | : 7 hours    | ago     | (2024-03-09 | 10:05:24) |
|       | End         | Time |          |     | : 7 hours    | ago     | (2024-03-09 | 10:12:44) |
|       | Duration    |      |          |     | : 7m         |         |             |           |
|       | Peak        | Time |          |     | : 2024-03-09 |         | 10:05:29    |           |
|       | Peak        |      |          |     | : 123456     | packets |             |           |
|       | Sum         |      |          |     | : 234567     | packets |             |           |
Displayingthedetailsofcongestioneventoccurrence125whenthiscongestioneventoccurrenceID is
invalid:
| switch#    |     | show  | congestion-event |     | 125 |        |        |     |
| ---------- | --- | ----- | ---------------- | --- | --- | ------ | ------ | --- |
| Congestion |     | event | occurrence       |     | 125 | is not | valid. |     |
AnID isinvalidiftheoccurrenceID isnotbeingusedyet.IftheID isvalidanddisplaying"invalid",thecongestion
eventretentiongroupdeletedtheoccurrencetomakeroomfornewoccurrences.
| Command   |     | History     |     |         |     |                   |     |     |
| --------- | --- | ----------- | --- | ------- | --- | ----------------- | --- | --- |
| Release   |     |             |     |         |     | Modification      |     |     |
| 10.16     |     |             |     |         |     | Commandintroduced |     |     |
| Command   |     | Information |     |         |     |                   |     |     |
| Platforms |     | Command     |     | context |     | Authority         |     |     |
8325 Operator(>)orManager Administratorsorlocalusergroupmemberswithexecution
| 8325H |     | (#) |     |     |     | rightsforthiscommand. |     |     |
| ----- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --------------------- | --- | --- |
8325P
10000
AOS-CX10.16MonitoringGuide|(8100,83xx,9300S,10000SwitchSeries) 21