AOS-CX 10.16.xxxx CoPP
Guide

(8100, 83xx, 93xx, 100xx Switch Series)

Published: November 2025

Version: 1

Copyright Information

© Copyright 2025 Hewlett Packard Enterprise Development LP.

This product includes code licensed under certain open source licenses which require source
compliance. The corresponding source for these components is available upon request. This offer is
valid to anyone in receipt of this information and shall expire three years following the date of the final
distribution of this product version by Hewlett Packard Enterprise Company. To obtain such source
code, please check if the code is available in the HPE Software Center at
https://myenterpriselicense.hpe.com/cwp-ui/software but, if not, send a written request for specific
software version and product for which you want the open source code. Along with the request, please
send a check or money order in the amount of US $10.00 to:

Hewlett Packard Enterprise Company
Attn: General Counsel
WW Corporate Headquarters
1701 E Mossy Oaks Rd Spring, TX 77389
United States of America.

| 2

Notices

The information contained herein is subject to change without notice. The only warranties for Hewlett
Packard Enterprise products and services are set forth in the express warranty statements
accompanying such products and services. Nothing herein should be construed as constituting an
additional warranty. Hewlett Packard Enterprise shall not be liable for technical or editorial errors or
omissions contained herein.

Confidential computer software. Valid license from Hewlett Packard Enterprise required for possession,
use, or copying. Consistent with FAR 12.211 and 12.212, Commercial Computer Software, Computer
Software Documentation, and Technical Data for Commercial Items are licensed to the U.S. Government
under vendor's standard commercial license.

Links to third-party websites take you outside the Hewlett Packard Enterprise website. Hewlett Packard
Enterprise has no control over and is not responsible for information outside the Hewlett Packard
Enterprise website.

AOS-CX 10.16.xxxx CoPP Guide | (8100, 83xx, 93xx, 100xx Switches)

3

Contents
| About                               | this                           | document |           | 5   |
| ----------------------------------- | ------------------------------ | -------- | --------- | --- |
| Applicableproducts                  |                                |          |           | 5   |
| Latestversionavailableonline        |                                |          |           | 5   |
| Commandsyntaxnotationconventions    |                                |          |           | 5   |
| Abouttheexamples                    |                                |          |           | 6   |
| Identifyingswitchportsandinterfaces |                                |          |           | 7   |
| Control                             | Plane                          | Policing | (CoPP)    | 8   |
| Overview                            |                                |          |           | 8   |
| ConfiguringCoPP                     |                                |          |           | 8   |
| CoPPcommands                        |                                |          |           | 9   |
|                                     | Classesoftraffic               |          |           | 9   |
|                                     | applycopp-policy               |          |           | 13  |
|                                     | class                          |          |           | 14  |
|                                     | clearcopp-policystatistics     |          |           | 15  |
|                                     | copp-policy                    |          |           | 16  |
|                                     | default-class                  |          |           | 17  |
|                                     | resetcopp-policy               |          |           | 18  |
|                                     | showcopp-policy                |          |           | 19  |
|                                     | showcopp-policyfactory-default |          |           | 21  |
|                                     | showcopp-policystatistics      |          |           | 22  |
|                                     | showtechcopp                   |          |           | 24  |
| Support                             | and                            | Other    | Resources | 26  |
| AccessingHPEArubaNetworkingSupport  |                                |          |           | 26  |
| AccessingUpdates                    |                                |          |           | 27  |
| WarrantyInformation                 |                                |          |           | 27  |
| RegulatoryInformation               |                                |          |           | 27  |
| DocumentationFeedback               |                                |          |           | 27  |
4
AOS-CX10.16.xxxxCoPPGuide| (8100,83xx,93xx,100xxSwitches)

Chapter 1

About this document

About this document

This document describes features of the AOS-CX network operating system. It is intended for
administrators responsible for installing, configuring, and managing HPE Aruba Networking switches on
a network.

Applicable products

This document applies to the following products:

n HPE Aruba Networking 8100 Switch Series (R9W94A, R9W95A, R9W96A, R9W97A)

n HPE Aruba Networking 8320 Switch Series (JL479A, JL579A, JL581A)

n HPE Aruba Networking 8325 Switch Series (JL624A, JL625A, JL626A, JL627A)

n HPE Aruba Networking 8325H Switch Series (S4B20A, S4B21A, S4B22A, S4B23A, S2T42A, S2T46A,

S2T47A, S2T48A)

n HPE Aruba Networking 8325P Switch Series (S0G12A, S4A48A)

n HPE Aruba Networking 8360 Switch Series (JL700A, JL701A, JL702A, JL703A, JL706A, JL707A, JL708A,

JL709A, JL710A, JL711A, JL700C, JL701C, JL702C, JL703C, JL706C, JL707C, JL708C, JL709C, JL710C, JL711C,
JL704C, JL705C, JL719C, JL718C, JL717C, JL720C, JL722C, JL721C )

n HPE Aruba Networking 9300 Switch Series (R9A29A, R9A30A, R8Z96A, S0F81A, S0F82A, S0F83A)

n HPE Aruba Networking 9300S Switch Series (S0F81A, S0F82A, S0F83A, S0F84A, S0F85A, S0F86A,

S0F88A, S0F95A, S0F96A)

n HPE Aruba Networking 10000 Switch Series (R8P13A, R8P14A)

n HPE Aruba Networking 10040 Switch Series (S4R58A, S4R59A)

Latest version available online

Updates to this document can occur after initial publication. For the latest versions of product
documentation, see the links provided in Support and Other Resources.

Command syntax notation conventions

Convention

example-text

Usage

Identifies commands and their options and operands, code examples,
filenames, pathnames, and output displayed in a command window. Items
that appear like the example text in the previous column are to be entered
exactly as shown and are required unless enclosed in brackets ([ ]).

example-text

In code and screen examples, indicates text entered by a user.

AOS-CX 10.16.xxxx CoPP Guide | (8100, 83xx, 93xx, 100xx Switches)

5

Convention

Usage

Any of the following:
n <example-text>
n <example-text>
n example-text

n example-text

|

{ }

[ ]

… or

...

Identifies a placeholder—such as a parameter or a variable—that you must
substitute with an actual value in a command or in code:

n For output formats where italic text cannot be displayed, variables
are enclosed in angle brackets (< >). Substitute the text—including
the enclosing angle brackets—with an actual value.

n For output formats where italic text can be displayed, variables

might or might not be enclosed in angle brackets. Substitute the
text including the enclosing angle brackets, if any, with an actual
value.

Vertical bar. A logical OR that separates multiple items from which you can
choose only one.
Any spaces that are on either side of the vertical bar are included for
readability and are not a required part of the command syntax.

Braces. Indicates that at least one of the enclosed items is required.

Brackets. Indicates that the enclosed item or items are optional.

Ellipsis:

n In code and screen examples, a vertical or horizontal ellipsis indicates an

omission of information.

n In syntax using brackets and braces, an ellipsis indicates items that can be

repeated. When an item followed by ellipses is enclosed in brackets, zero

or more items can be specified.

About the examples

Examples in this document are representative and might not match your particular switch or
environment.

The slot and port numbers in this document are for illustration only and might be unavailable on your
switch.

Understanding the CLI prompts

When illustrating the prompts in the command line interface (CLI), this document uses the generic term
switch, instead of the host name of the switch. For example:
switch>

The CLI prompt indicates the current command context. For example:
switch>

Indicates the operator command context.

switch#

Indicates the manager command context.

switch(CONTEXT-NAME)#

Indicates the configuration context for a feature. For example:

switch(config-if)#

Identifies the interface context.

Variable information in CLI prompts

About this document | 6

In certain configuration contexts, the prompt may include variable information. For example, when in
the VLAN configuration context, a VLAN number appears in the prompt:
switch(config-vlan-100)#

When referring to this context, this document uses the syntax:
switch(config-vlan-<VLAN-ID>)#

Where <VLAN-ID> is a variable representing the VLAN number.

Identifying switch ports and interfaces

Physical ports on the switch and their corresponding logical software interfaces are identified using the
format: member/slot/port.

On the HPE Aruba Networking 8xxx, 93xx, and 10xxx Switch Series

n member: Always 1. VSF is not supported on this switch.

n slot: Always 1. This is not a modular switch, so there are no slots.

n port: Physical number of a port on the switch.

For example, the logical interface 1/1/4 in software is associated with physical port 4 on the switch.

If using breakout cables, the port designation changes to x:y, where x is the physical port and y is the lane when

split. For example, the logical interface 1/1/4:2 in software is associated with lane 2 on physical port 4 in slot 1 on

member 1.

AOS-CX 10.16.xxxx CoPP Guide | (8100, 83xx, 93xx, 100xx Switches)

7

Chapter 2

Control Plane Policing (CoPP)

Control Plane Policing (CoPP)

Overview

CoPP provides a way for administrators to protect the management processor on the switch from high
packet loads (generated by malicious or nonmalicious sources) that might interfere with its ability to
keep data plane traffic flowing. For example, a denial of service attack can result in excessive traffic that
would slow down the management processor and negatively affect switch throughput.

A CoPP policy is composed of one or more classes. Each class defines one or more target protocols and
how their traffic is managed. Every policy also has a default class to regulate packets that do not match
any other class. The following actions can be applied for all packets matching a class:

n Drop the packets. (Excluding the default class.)

n Set the processing priority in the range 0 to 7 (0 - highest priority and 7 - lowest priority).

n Set the maximum data rate in packets per second (pps) at which each line module can send packets

to the management processor.

n Set the maximum burst size in packets at which each line module can send packets to the

management processor.

Up to 32 CoPP policies can be defined, but only one can be active on the switch at a time. A CoPP policy
must always be active on the switch. By default, the switch has a CoPP policy named default which is
automatically applied at first boot.

When the switch reboots, the CoPP policy that was actively applied to the switch before the reboot
occurred s applied if it was saved to the startup configuration with the copy running-config startup-
config command.

For GRE tunneled traffic, CoPP policies match on the payload. CoPP policies do not regulate traffic
received from the Out-of-Band-Management (OOBM) Ethernet port.

Configuring CoPP

Procedure

1. Configure the default CoPP policy, edit an existing policy, or create a policy with the command

copp-policy.

2. Add, edit, or remove classes in the policy with the command class.

3.

If the policy is not the active policy on the switch, apply it with the command apply copp-policy.
(Changes made to an active policy take effect immediately and do not need to be applied.)

4. Review the CoPP policy configuration settings with the command show copp-policy.

Example

This example creates the following configuration:

AOS-CX 10.16.xxxx CoPP Guide | (8100, 83xx, 93xx, 100xx Switches)

8

n DefinesanewpolicynamedMy_CoppPolicy.
n Addstwoclassestothepolicy.
Activatesthepolicy.
n
n Displayspolicyconfigurationsettings.
| switch(config)#      | copp-policy |       | My_CoppPolicy |          |        |      |          |     |
| -------------------- | ----------- | ----- | ------------- | -------- | ------ | ---- | -------- | --- |
| switch(config-copp)# |             | class | igmp          | priority | 6 rate | 5000 | burst 60 |     |
switch(config-copp)# class lacp priority 2 rate 2000 burst 1000
| switch(config-copp)# |             | exit        |               |               |           |      |          |          |
| -------------------- | ----------- | ----------- | ------------- | ------------- | --------- | ---- | -------- | -------- |
| switch(config)#      | apply       | copp-policy |               | My_CoppPolicy |           |      |          |          |
| switch(config)#      | exit        |             |               |               |           |      |          |          |
| switch# show         | copp-policy |             | My_CoppPolicy |               |           |      |          |          |
| class                |             | drop        | priority      | rate          | pps burst | pkts | hardware | rate pps |
--------------------- ---- -------- -------- ---------- -----------------
| igmp    |     |     | 6   | 5000 | 60   |     | 5000 |     |
| ------- | --- | --- | --- | ---- | ---- | --- | ---- | --- |
| lacp    |     |     | 2   | 2000 | 1000 |     | 2000 |     |
| default |     |     | 1   | 6000 | 70   |     | 6000 |     |
CoPP commands
| Classes of | traffic |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |
| ---------- | ------- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
Thedifferentclassesoftrafficthatcanbeindividuallyconfiguredare:
AppliestotheHPEArubaNetworking8320,8325,9300/9300S,10000.10040SwitchSeries:
n acl-logging:AccessControlListloggingpackets.
n arp-broadcast:AddressResolutionProtocolpacketswithabroadcastdestinationMACaddress.
n arp-unicast:AddressResolutionProtocolpacketswithaswitchsystemdestinationMACaddress.
n bfd:BidirectionalForwardingDetection(BFD)packetswithadestinationIPaddressownedbythe
switch.
n bgp-ipv4:BorderGatewayProtocolpacketswithadestinationIPv4addressownedbytheswitch.
n bgp-ipv6:BorderGatewayProtocolpacketswithadestinationIPv6addressownedbytheswitch.
n dhcp-ipv4:DynamicHostConfigurationProtocolpacketswithadestinationIPv4address.
n dhcp-ipv6:DynamicHostConfigurationProtocolpacketswithadestinationIPv6address.
n dss: 10000
n erps:EthernetRingProtectionSwitchingcontrolpacketswiththedestinationMACaddress
01:19:a7:00:00:XX,whereXXcanbeanyvalue.
n flow-telemetry: PacketsreceivedforflowtelemetrysuchasIPFlowInformationExport(IPFIX).
n
Theflow-telemetryclassisnotsupportedforHPEArubaNetworking8320,8325,9300,9300S,
10040Switchseries.
n hypertext:HypertextTransferProtocol(HTTP)orHypertextTransferProtocolSecure(HTTPS)
packets.
n icmp-broadcast-ipv4:InternetControlMessageProtocolpacketswithabroadcastormulticast
destinationIPv4address.
icmp-multicast-ipv6:InternetControlMessageProtocolpacketswithawell-knownmulticast
n
destinationIPv6address.
ControlPlanePolicing(CoPP)|9

n icmp-unicast-ipv4: Internet Control Message Protocol packets with a destination IPv4 address

owned by the switch.

n icmp-unicast-ipv6: Internet Control Message Protocol packets with a destination IPv6 address

owned by the switch.

n ieee-8021x: IEEE 802.1X protocol packets with EtherType 0x0888E.

The flow-telemetry class is not supported for HPE Aruba Networking 8320 9300, 9300S, 10040

Switch series.

n igmp: Internet Group Management Protocol packets.

n ip-exceptions: Routable packets that would exceed the MTU for the egress interface, packets that
trigger ICMP redirects, and packets with TTL/hop_limit=1 that are discarded when routing through
the switch.

n ipfix: Packets received for IPFIX (IP Flow Information Export.

The ipfix class is not supported for HPE Aruba Networking 8320, 9300, 9300S, 10000, 10040 Switch

series.

n ipsec: Internet Protocol Security IPv4 or IPv6, unicast or configured multicast. All IPsec traffic received

by the CPU will be regulated by the ipsec class regardless of the encapsulated protocol.

n ipv4-options: Unicast IPv4 packets including option headers.

n ipv6-options: Unicast IPv6 packets including option headers.

n lacp: Link Aggregation Control Protocol packets with the destination MAC address 01:80:c2:00:00:02.

n lldp: Link Layer Discovery Protocol packets with the destination MAC address 01:80:c2:00:00:0e.

n loop-protect: Loop Protection packets with the destination MAC address 09:00:09:09:13:a6.

n mdns: Multicast Domain Name System packets.

The mdns class is not supported for HPE Aruba Networking 8320 Switch series.

n mirror-to-cpu: Packets from mirroring session configured to deliver to the console.

n mld: Multicast Listener Discovery packets of type V1 or V2 with an IPv6 address of FF00::/8, FF02::16

or FF02::2.

n mvrp: Multiple VLAN Registration Protocol packets with the destination MAC address

01:80:c2:00:00:20 or 01:80:c2:00:00:21.

n ntp: Network Time Protocol packets with a destination IP address owned by the switch.

n ospf-multicast-ipv4: Open Shortest Path First packets with the multicast destination IPv4 address

224.0.0.5 or 224.0.0.6. The HPE Aruba Networking 8325 Switch series has VxLAN packets with VNI 0.

n ospf-multicast-ipv6: Open Shortest Path First packets with the multicast destination IPv6 address

FF02::5 or FF02::6.

n ospf-unicast-ipv4: Open Shortest Path First packets with a destination IPv4 address owned by the

switch.

n ospf-unicast-ipv6: Open Shortest Path First packets with a destination IPv6 address owned by the

switch.

n pim: Protocol Independent Multicast packets with the destination IPv4 address 224.0.0.13 or IPv6
address FF02::D, or Multicast Source Discovery Protocol (MSDP) packets, or with a destination IP
address owned by the switch. Also includes PIM packets received from a 6in6 tunnel.

AOS-CX 10.16.xxxx CoPP Guide | (8100, 83xx, 93xx, 100xx Switches)

10

n secure-learn: 10000

The secure-learn class is not supported for HPE Aruba Networking 8320, 8325. and 9300, 9300S,

10040 Switch series.

n sflow: Packet headers sampled by the switch that will be sent to the sFlow collector.

n ssh: Secure Shell (SSH) or Secure File Transfer Protocol (SFTP) packets. Dropping ssh packets will

result in the connection to the CLI being lost.

n stp: Spanning Tree Protocol (STP) packets with the destination MAC address 01:80:c2:00:00:00 or Per-

VLAN Spanning Tree (PVST) packets with the destination MAC address 01:00:0c:cc:cc:cd.

n telnet: Secure Telnet packets.

n udld: Unidirectional Link Detection packets with the destination MAC address 01:00:0c:cc:cc:cc or

00:e0:52:00:00:00, or Cisco Discovery Protocol packets with the destination MAC address
01:00:0c:cc:cc:cc.

n unknown-multicast: Packets with an unknown multicast destination IP address.

n unresolved-ip-unicast: Packets to be software forwarded by the management processor.

n vrrp-ipv4: Virtual Router Redundancy Protocol packets with the destination IPv4 address 224.0.0.18

or VSX-Keepalive.

n vrrp-ipv6: Virtual Router Redundancy Protocol packets with the destination IPv6 address FF02::12.

Applies to the HPE Aruba Networking 8100 and 8360 Switch Series:

n acl-logging: Access Control List logging packets.

n arp-broadcast: Address Resolution Protocol packets with a broadcast destination MAC address.

n apr-protect: Address Resolution Protocol packets intercepted and inspected for ARP protection.

n arp-unicast: Address Resolution Protocol packets with a switch system destination MAC address.

n bfd-control : Bidirectional Forwarding Detection (BFD) control or Ethernet Operations,

Administration, and Maintenance (EOAM).

n bgp: Border Gateway Protocol packets with a destination IPv4 or IPv6 address owned by the switch.

n dhcp: Dynamic Host Configuration Protocol packets. Also includes snooped DHCP packets if DHCP

snooping is enabled.

n erps: Ethernet Ring Protection Switching control packets with the destination MAC address

01:19:a7:00:00:XX, where XX can be any value.

n fib-optimization: Packets for Forwarding Information Base (FIB) Optimization.

n icmp-broadcast-ipv4: Internet Control Message Protocol packets with a broadcast or multicast

destination IPv4 address.

n icmp-multicast-ipv6: Internet Control Message Protocol packets with a well-known multicast

destination IPv6 address.

n icmp-security:-ipv6: IPv6 Internet Control Message Protocol packets intercepted and inspected.

n icmp-unicast-ipv4: Internet Control Message Protocol packets with a destination IPv4 address

owned by the switch.

n icmp-unicast-ipv6: Internet Control Message Protocol packets with a destination IPv6 address

owned by the switch.

n ieee-8021x: IEEE 802.1X protocol packets with EtherType 0x0888E.

n igmp: Internet Group Management Protocol packets.

Control Plane Policing (CoPP) | 11

n ip-exceptions: Routable packets that would exceed the MTU for the egress interface, packets that
trigger ICMP redirects, and packets with TTL/hop_limit=1 that are discarded when routing through
the switch.

n ip-lockdown: Packets denied and logged due to violation of allowed "IP address/VLAN/port/MAC

address" association.

n ipfix: Packets received for IPFIX (IP Flow Information Export).

n ipsec: Internet Protocol Security IPv4 or IPv6, unicast or configured multicast. All IPsec traffic received

by the CPU will be regulated by the ipsec class regardless of the encapsulated protocol.

n ipv4-options: Unicast IPv4 packets including option headers.

n lacp: Link Aggregation Control Protocol packets with the destination MAC address 01:80:c2:00:00:02.

n lldp: Link Layer Discovery Protocol packets with the destination MAC address 01:80:c2:00:00:0e.

n loop-protect: Loop Protection packets with the destination MAC address 09:00:09:09:13:a6.

n manageability: Unicast IP packets addressed to the switch for specific protocols that do not have a

dedicated CoPP class like HTTP, SSH, Telnet, and RADIUS.

n mirror-to-cpu: Packets from mirroring session configured to deliver to the console.

n mld: Multicast Listener Discovery packets of type V1 or V2 with an IPv6 address of FF00::/8, FF02::16

or FF02::2.

n mvrp: Multiple VLAN Registration Protocol packets with the destination MAC address

01:80:c2:00:00:20 or 01:80:c2:00:00:21.

n nae-packet-monitor: Network Analytics Engine (NAE) monitored packets.

n ntp: Network Time Protocol packets with a destination IP address owned by the switch.

n ospf-multicast: Open Shortest Path First packets with the multicast destination IPv4 address

224.0.0.5 or 224.0.0.6, or IPv6 address FF02::5 or FF02::6, or Routing Information Protocol packets
with the multicast destination IPv4 address 224.0.0.9 or IPv6 address FF02::9, or MPLS Label
Distribution Protocol packets with the multicast destination IPv4 address 224.0.0.2 and destination
UDP port 646. Also includes OSPF multicast packets received from a 6in6 tunnel.

n ospf-unicast: Open Shortest Path First packets or Routing Information Protocol packets with a local
destination IPv4 address or IPv6 address. Also includes OSPF unicast packets received from a 6in6
tunnel.

n pim: Protocol Independent Multicast packets with the destination IPv4 address 224.0.0.13 or IPv6
address FF02::D, or Multicast Source Discovery Protocol (MSDP) packets, or with a destination IP
address owned by the switch. Also includes PIM packets received from a 6in6 tunnel.

n ptp: Precision Time Protocol (PTP) packets to synchronize clocks between networks.

n secure-learn: Packets intercepted and inspected to see if source MAC address is allowed on the port.

n sflow: Packet headers sampled by the switch that will be sent to the sFlow collector.

n stp: Spanning Tree Protocol (STP) packets with the destination MAC address 01:80:c2:00:00:00 or Per-

VLAN Spanning Tree (PVST) packets with the destination MAC address 01:00:0c:cc:cc:cd.

n stp: Spanning Tree Protocol (STP) packets with the destination MAC address 01:80:c2:00:00:00 or Per-

VLAN Spanning Tree (PVST) packets with the destination MAC address 01:00:0c:cc:cc:cd.

n udld: Unidirectional Link Detection packets with the destination MAC address 01:00:0c:cc:cc:cc or

00:e0:52:00:00:00, or Cisco Discovery Protocol packets with the destination MAC address
01:00:0c:cc:cc:cc.

n unknown-multicast: Packets with an unknown multicast destination IP address.

n unresolved-ip-unicast: Packets to be software forwarded by the management processor.

AOS-CX 10.16.xxxx CoPP Guide | (8100, 83xx, 93xx, 100xx Switches)

12

n vrrp-ipv4:VirtualRouterRedundancyProtocolpacketswiththedestinationIPv4address224.0.0.18
orIPv6addressFF02::12,orVSX-Keepalivepackets.
ToregulateanyothertrafficdestinedfortheCPU,everyCoPPpolicyhasaclassnameddefaultthatcan
alsobeconfiguredtoregulateothertraffictotheCPUorpreventothertrafficfrombeingdelivered.
AllIPsectrafficreceivedbytheCPUwillberegulatedbytheipsecclassregardlessoftheencapsulatedprotocol.
apply copp-policy
| apply copp-policy    | { <NAME> | | default | }   |
| -------------------- | -------- | --------- | --- |
| no apply copp-policy | <NAME>   |           |     |
Description
AppliesaCoPPpolicytotheswitch,replacingthepolicythatisineffect.Theremaybeabrief
interruptionintrafficflowtothemanagementprocessorwhiletheswitchimplementsthechange.
Entertheno apply copp-policy <NAME>commandwiththenameofaCoPPpolicytounapplyaCoPP
policyandapplythedefaultCoPPpolicy.Thiswillonlytakeeffectifthespecifiedpolicyisactively
applied.SincetheremustalwaysbeaCoPPpolicyapplied,thiscommandeffectivelyattemptstoreplace
theappliedCoPPpolicywiththedefaultCoPPpolicy.ThedefaultCoPPpolicycannotbeunappliedusing
thiscommand.
| Parameter |     |     | Description                                     |
| --------- | --- | --- | ----------------------------------------------- |
| <NAME>    |     |     | Specifiesthenameofthepolicytoapply.Length:1to64 |
characters.
| default |     |     | Appliesthedefaultpolicy. |
| ------- | --- | --- | ------------------------ |
Usage
Ifthenewpolicycannotbeapplied(forexample,duetoalackofhardwareresources),theprevious
policyremainsineffect.Usetheshowcopp-policycommandtodeterminewhichpolicyisineffect.
Examples
ApplyingapolicynamedMy_CoppPolicy:
| switch(config)# | apply | copp-policy | My_CoppPolicy |
| --------------- | ----- | ----------- | ------------- |
Applyingthedefaultpolicy:
| switch(config)# | apply | copp-policy | default |
| --------------- | ----- | ----------- | ------- |
UnapplyingapolicynamedMy_CoppPolicy:
| switch(config)# | no apply | copp-policy | My_CoppPolicy |
| --------------- | -------- | ----------- | ------------- |
| Command History |          |             |               |
ControlPlanePolicing(CoPP)|13

| Release             |         |         | Modification |     |
| ------------------- | ------- | ------- | ------------ | --- |
| 10.07orearlier      |         |         | --           |     |
| Command Information |         |         |              |     |
| Platforms           | Command | context | Authority    |     |
Allplatforms config Administratorsorlocalusergroupmemberswithexecution
rightsforthiscommand.
class
class <CLASS> {drop | priority <PRIORITY> rate <RATE> [burst <BURST>]}
no class <CLASS> {drop | priority <PRIORITY> rate <RATE> [burst <BURST>]}
Description
AddsaclasstoaCoPPpolicy.Iftheclassexists,theexistingclassismodified.Changesmadetoanactive
(applied)policytakeeffectimmediately.
Whenaddingormodifyingaclassinanactivepolicy,CoPPimmediatelyactivatesthechangeonthe
switch.Incaseswhereinsufficienthardwareresourcesexisttosupportaclassoritsaction,CoPPfailsto
activatethechangedclassontheswitch.Whenthisfailureoccurs,theactiveconfigurationontheswitch
willbeoutofsyncwithitsdefinition.Todiagnoseandremedythissituation:
n Usetheshowcopp-policycommandtodeterminewhichclassesareoutofsyncbetweentheactive
policyanditsdefinition.
n Usetheresetcopp-policycommandtosynchronizetheactivepolicywithitsdefinition.This
synchronizationchangestheclassesinthedefinitiontomatchtheclassesintheactivepolicy.
ThenoformofthiscommandremovesaclassfromaCoPPpolicy.Trafficfortheremovedclassthatis
destinedfortheprocessorwillbeincludedinthedefaultclass.Tostopaclassoftrafficfromreaching
theprocessor,settheclassactiontodrop.
| Parameter |     |     | Description                          |     |
| --------- | --- | --- | ------------------------------------ | --- |
| <CLASS>   |     |     | Specifiestheclasstoaddoredit.        |     |
| drop      |     |     | Droppacketsmatchingtheselectedclass. |     |
priority <PRIORITY> Specifiesthepriorityforpacketsmatchingtheselectedclass.
Range:0to7.
rate <RATE> Specifiesthemaximumrate,inpacketspersecond(pps),for
packetsmatchingtheselectedclass.Range:1to99999.
burst <BURST>
Specifiesthemaximumburstsize,inpackets,forpackets
matchingtheselectedclass.Range:1to9999.
Examples
AddingaclasstohandleLACPtrafficwithpriorityof2andrateof2000:
| switch(config-copp)# |     | class lacp | priority | 2 rate 2000 |
| -------------------- | --- | ---------- | -------- | ----------- |
AOS-CX10.16.xxxxCoPPGuide|(8100,83xx,93xx,100xxSwitches) 14

ModifyingtheclasstodropLLDPpackets:
| switch(config-copp)# |     |     | class |     | lldp drop |     |     |     |
| -------------------- | --- | --- | ----- | --- | --------- | --- | --- | --- |
RemovingtheclassthathandlesLLDPpackets.LLDPtrafficdestinedtotheprocessorwillbeincludedin
thedefaultclass.
| switch(config-copp)# |     |             | no  | class   | lldp         |     |     |     |
| -------------------- | --- | ----------- | --- | ------- | ------------ | --- | --- | --- |
| Command              |     | History     |     |         |              |     |     |     |
| Release              |     |             |     |         | Modification |     |     |     |
| 10.07orearlier       |     |             |     |         | --           |     |     |     |
| Command              |     | Information |     |         |              |     |     |     |
| Platforms            |     | Command     |     | context | Authority    |     |     |     |
Allplatforms config-copp Administratorsorlocalusergroupmemberswithexecution
rightsforthiscommand.
| clear | copp-policy |     | statistics |     |     |     |     |     |
| ----- | ----------- | --- | ---------- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| clear | copp-policy |     | statistics |     |     |     |     |     |
Description
ResetsstatisticsforallCoPPclassestozero.
Examples
Displayingandthenresettingstatisticsforallclassesintheactivepolicy:
| switch#    |     | show copp-policy |             | statistics |            |     |     |     |
| ---------- | --- | ---------------- | ----------- | ---------- | ---------- | --- | --- | --- |
| Statistics |     | for              | CoPP policy |            | 'default': |     |     |     |
Totals:
|         | bytes                   | passed            | :       | 64000      |            | bytes dropped            | : 96000 |     |
| ------- | ----------------------- | ----------------- | ------- | ---------- | ---------- | ------------------------ | ------- | --- |
|         | packets                 | passed            | :       | 1000       |            | packets dropped          | : 1500  |     |
|         | avg_packet_size_passed: |                   |         |            | 64         | avg_packet_size_dropped: |         | 64  |
| Class:  | default                 |                   |         |            |            |                          |         |     |
|         | bytes                   | passed            | :       | 25600      |            | bytes dropped            | : 38400 |     |
|         | packets                 | passed            | :       | 400        |            | packets dropped          | : 600   |     |
|         | avg_packet_size_passed: |                   |         |            | 64         | avg_packet_size_dropped: |         | 64  |
| Class:  | acl-logging             |                   |         |            |            |                          |         |     |
|         | bytes                   | passed            | :       | 6400       |            | bytes dropped            | : 6400  |     |
|         | packets                 | passed            | :       | 100        |            | packets dropped          | : 100   |     |
|         | avg_packet_size_passed: |                   |         |            | 64         | avg_packet_size_dropped: |         | 64  |
| Class:  | arp-broadcast           |                   |         |            |            |                          |         |     |
|         | bytes                   | passed            | :       | 32000      |            | bytes dropped            | : 51200 |     |
|         | packets                 | passed            | :       | 500        |            | packets dropped          | : 800   |     |
|         | avg_packet_size_passed: |                   |         |            | 64         | avg_packet_size_dropped: |         | 64  |
|         |                         | <--OUTPUT         | OMITTED | FOR        | BREVITY--> |                          |         |     |
| switch# |                         | clear copp-policy |         | statistics |            |                          |         |     |
| switch# |                         | show copp-policy  |         | statistics |            |                          |         |     |
ControlPlanePolicing(CoPP)|15

| Statistics |     | for | CoPP policy | 'default': |     |     |     |     |
| ---------- | --- | --- | ----------- | ---------- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
Totals:
|                | bytes                   | passed               | : 0     |                |              | bytes dropped            | : 0 |     |
| -------------- | ----------------------- | -------------------- | ------- | -------------- | ------------ | ------------------------ | --- | --- |
|                | packets                 | passed               | : 0     |                |              | packets dropped          | : 0 |     |
|                | avg_packet_size_passed: |                      |         | 0              |              | avg_packet_size_dropped: |     | 0   |
| Class:         | default                 |                      |         |                |              |                          |     |     |
|                | bytes                   | passed               | : 0     |                |              | bytes dropped            | : 0 |     |
|                | packets                 | passed               | : 0     |                |              | packets dropped          | : 0 |     |
|                | avg_packet_size_passed: |                      |         | 0              |              | avg_packet_size_dropped: |     | 0   |
| Class:         | acl-logging             |                      |         |                |              |                          |     |     |
|                | bytes                   | passed               | : 0     |                |              | bytes dropped            | : 0 |     |
|                | packets                 | passed               | : 0     |                |              | packets dropped          | : 0 |     |
|                | avg_packet_size_passed: |                      |         | 0              |              | avg_packet_size_dropped: |     | 0   |
| Class:         | arp-broadcast           |                      |         |                |              |                          |     |     |
|                | bytes                   | passed               | : 0     |                |              | bytes dropped            | : 0 |     |
|                | packets                 | passed               | : 0     |                |              | packets dropped          | : 0 |     |
|                | avg_packet_size_passed: |                      |         | 0              |              | avg_packet_size_dropped: |     | 0   |
|                |                         | <--OUTPUT            | OMITTED | FOR BREVITY--> |              |                          |     |     |
| Command        |                         | History              |         |                |              |                          |     |     |
| Release        |                         |                      |         |                | Modification |                          |     |     |
| 10.07orearlier |                         |                      |         |                | --           |                          |     |     |
| Command        |                         | Information          |         |                |              |                          |     |     |
| Platforms      |                         | Command              | context |                | Authority    |                          |     |     |
| Allplatforms   |                         | Operator(>)orManager |         |                |              |                          |     |     |
(#)
copp-policy
| copp-policy    |     | {<NAME> | | default | [revert]} |     |     |     |     |
| -------------- | --- | ------- | --------- | --------- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| no copp-policy |     | <NAME>  |           |           |     |     |     |     |
Description
CreatesaCoPPpolicyandswitchestotheconfig-coppcontextforthepolicy.Or,ifthespecifiedpolicy
exists,switchestotheconfig-coppcontextforthepolicy.Apredefinedpolicy,nameddefault,contains
factorydefaultclassesandisappliedtotheswitchatfirststartup.Thispolicycannotbedeleted,butits
configurationcanbechanged.
ThenoformofthiscommandremovesaCoPPpolicy.Ifapolicyisactive(applied),itcannotberemoved
.Itmustbereplacedwithanotherpolicybeforeitcanberemoved.
| Parameter |     |     |     |     | Description                                         |     |     |     |
| --------- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --------------------------------------------------- | --- | --- | --- |
| <NAME>    |     |     |     |     | Specifiesthenameofthepolicytoaddoredit.Length:1to64 |     |     |     |
characters.Thenamemustnotbeasubstringofanyofthe
followingreservedwords:default,factory-default,commands,
configuration,orstatistics.
AOS-CX10.16.xxxxCoPPGuide|(8100,83xx,93xx,100xxSwitches) 16

| Parameter |     |     |     |     | Description                                          |     |
| --------- | --- | --- | --- | --- | ---------------------------------------------------- | --- |
| default   |     |     |     |     | SpecifiesthedefaultCoPPpolicy.Usethisdefaultpolicyto |     |
configurethedefaultpolicy.
revert
SetsthedefaultCoPPpolicytoitsfactorysettings.
Examples
CreatingapolicynamedMy_CoppPolicy:
| switch(config)# |     | copp-policy |     | My_CoppPolicy |     |     |
| --------------- | --- | ----------- | --- | ------------- | --- | --- |
switch(config-copp)#
RemovingapolicynamedMy_CoppPolicy:
| switch(config)# |     | no  | copp-policy |     | My_CoppPolicy |     |
| --------------- | --- | --- | ----------- | --- | ------------- | --- |
Settingthedefaultpolicytoitsfactorysettings:
| switch(config)# |     | copp-policy |     | default | revert |     |
| --------------- | --- | ----------- | --- | ------- | ------ | --- |
UnapplyingthepolicynamedMy_CoppPolicy:
| switch(config)# |             | no  | apply   | copp-policy | My_CoppPolicy |     |
| --------------- | ----------- | --- | ------- | ----------- | ------------- | --- |
| Command         | History     |     |         |             |               |     |
| Release         |             |     |         |             | Modification  |     |
| 10.07orearlier  |             |     |         |             | --            |     |
| Command         | Information |     |         |             |               |     |
| Platforms       | Command     |     | context |             | Authority     |     |
Allplatforms config Administratorsorlocalusergroupmemberswithexecution
rightsforthiscommand.
default-class
| default-class | priority |     | <PRIORITY> |     | rate <RATE> | [burst <BURST>] |
| ------------- | -------- | --- | ---------- | --- | ----------- | --------------- |
Description
ConfiguresthedefaultclassthatisautomaticallydefinedforallCoPPpolicies.Thedefaultclasscannot
beremoved,butitsconfigurationcanbechanged.Thedefaultclassisappliedtotrafficthatdoesnot
matchanyotherclassdefinedforapolicy.
ControlPlanePolicing(CoPP)|17

| Parameter |     |     | Description |     |
| --------- | --- | --- | ----------- | --- |
priority <PRIORITY> Specifiesthepriorityforpacketsmatchingtheselectedclass.
Range:0to7.
rate <RATE> Specifiesthemaximumrate,inpacketspersecond(pps),for
packetsmatchingtheselectedclass.Range:1to99999.
burst <BURST> Specifiesthemaximumburstsize,inpackets,forpackets
matchingtheselectedclass.Range:1to9999.
Example
Settingthedefaultclasstoapriorityof2andrateof2000:
| switch(config-copp)# |         | default-class | priority     | 2 rate 2000 |
| -------------------- | ------- | ------------- | ------------ | ----------- |
| Command History      |         |               |              |             |
| Release              |         |               | Modification |             |
| 10.07orearlier       |         |               | --           |             |
| Command Information  |         |               |              |             |
| Platforms            | Command | context       | Authority    |             |
config-copp
Allplatforms Administratorsorlocalusergroupmemberswithexecution
rightsforthiscommand.
reset copp-policy
| reset copp-policy | { <NAME> | | default | }   |     |
| ----------------- | -------- | --------- | --- | --- |
Description
ResetsanactiveCoPPpolicytomatchthesettingsthatarecurrentlyineffectfortheactivepolicyonthe
switch.Changesmadetotheactivepolicythatcouldnotbeactivatedareremovedfromtheactive
policy.WhentheswitchfailstoaddormodifyaclassinanactiveCoPPpolicy,itispossibletheactive
policysettingsontheswitchmaybeoutofsyncwiththosedefinedinthepolicy.
| Parameter |     |     | Description                                     |     |
| --------- | --- | --- | ----------------------------------------------- | --- |
| <NAME>    |     |     | Specifiesthenameofthepolicytoreset.Length:1to64 |     |
characters.
default
Resetsthedefaultpolicytomatchitsactivesettings.
Examples
ResettingapolicynamedMy_CoppPolicy:
AOS-CX10.16.xxxxCoPPGuide|(8100,83xx,93xx,100xxSwitches) 18

| switch# show | copp-policy |      | My_CoppPolicy |      |           |      |          |          |
| ------------ | ----------- | ---- | ------------- | ---- | --------- | ---- | -------- | -------- |
| class        |             | drop | priority      | rate | pps burst | pkts | hardware | rate pps |
--------------------- ---- -------- -------- ---------- -----------------
| igmp                 |             |       | 6                | 5000     | 60            |       | 5000     |          |
| -------------------- | ----------- | ----- | ---------------- | -------- | ------------- | ----- | -------- | -------- |
| lacp                 |             |       | 2                | 2000     | 1000          |       | 2000     |          |
| default              |             |       | 1                | 6000     | 70            |       | 6000     |          |
| switch# config       | terminal    |       |                  |          |               |       |          |          |
| switch(config)#      | copp-policy |       | My_CoppPolicy    |          |               |       |          |          |
| switch(config-copp)# |             | class | stp              | priority | 4 rate 4000   | burst | 60       |          |
| switch(config-copp)# |             | do    | show copp-policy |          | My_CoppPolicy |       |          |          |
| class                |             | drop  | priority         | rate     | pps burst     | pkts  | hardware | rate pps |
--------------------- ---- -------- -------- ---------- -----------------
| igmp    |     |     | 6   | 5000 | 60   |     | 5000 |     |
| ------- | --- | --- | --- | ---- | ---- | --- | ---- | --- |
| lacp    |     |     | 2   | 2000 | 1000 |     | 2000 |     |
| default |     |     | 1   | 6000 | 70   |     | 6000 |     |
% Warning: user-specified classes in CoPP policy My_CoppPolicy do not match
| active configuration. |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |
| --------------------- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
switch(config-copp)# do show copp-policy My_CoppPolicy configuration
| class |     | drop | priority | rate | pps burst | pkts | applied |     |
| ----- | --- | ---- | -------- | ---- | --------- | ---- | ------- | --- |
--------------------- ---- -------- -------- ---------- -------
| igmp    |     |     | 6   | 5000 | 60   |     | yes |     |
| ------- | --- | --- | --- | ---- | ---- | --- | --- | --- |
| lacp    |     |     | 2   | 2000 | 1000 |     | yes |     |
| stp     |     |     | 4   | 4000 | 60   |     | no  |     |
| default |     |     | 1   | 6000 | 70   |     | yes |     |
% Warning: user-specified classes in CoPP policy My_CoppPolicy do not match
| active configuration. |       |             |             |               |           |      |          |          |
| --------------------- | ----- | ----------- | ----------- | ------------- | --------- | ---- | -------- | -------- |
| switch(config-copp)#  |       | exit        |             |               |           |      |          |          |
| switch(config)#       | reset | copp-policy |             | My_CoppPolicy |           |      |          |          |
| switch(config)#       | do    | show        | copp-policy | My_CoppPolicy |           |      |          |          |
| class                 |       | drop        | priority    | rate          | pps burst | pkts | hardware | rate pps |
--------------------- ---- -------- -------- ---------- -----------------
| igmp    |     |     | 6   | 5000 | 60   |     | 5000 |     |
| ------- | --- | --- | --- | ---- | ---- | --- | ---- | --- |
| lacp    |     |     | 2   | 2000 | 1000 |     | 2000 |     |
| default |     |     | 1   | 6000 | 70   |     | 6000 |     |
Resettingthedefaultpolicy:
| switch(config)#     | reset   | copp-policy |     | default      |     |     |     |     |
| ------------------- | ------- | ----------- | --- | ------------ | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| Command History     |         |             |     |              |     |     |     |     |
| Release             |         |             |     | Modification |     |     |     |     |
| 10.07orearlier      |         |             |     | --           |     |     |     |     |
| Command Information |         |             |     |              |     |     |     |     |
| Platforms           | Command | context     |     | Authority    |     |     |     |     |
config
Allplatforms Administratorsorlocalusergroupmemberswithexecution
rightsforthiscommand.
show copp-policy
show copp-policy [<NAME> | default] [commands] [configuration] [vsx-peer]
Description
ControlPlanePolicing(CoPP)|19

Shows CoPP policy settings for a specific CoPP policy. When entered without specifying either a name or
the default parameter, shows all the CoPP policy settings that are active on the switch and have
successfully been programmed into the hardware.

A warning is displayed if:

n The active and user-specified applications of a policy do not match.

n The active and user-specified configurations of a policy do not match.

Parameter

<NAME>

default

commands

configuration

vsx-peer

Example

Description

Specifies the name of the policy for which to display settings.
Length: 1 to 64 characters.

Displays CoPP settings for the default policy.

Displays output as CLI commands.

Displays user-specified CoPP settings and not the active settings.

Shows the output from the VSX peer switch. If the switches do not
have the VSX configuration or the ISL is down, the output from the
VSX peer switch is not displayed. This parameter is available on
switches that support VSX.

Displaying the CoPP policies defined in the configuration and the active application:

switch#
show copp-policy
applied copp_policy_name
------- ----------------

My_CoppPolicy

applied default
switch#

Displaying the active configuration of all CoPP policies as CLI commands:

switch# show copp-policy commands
copp-policy My_CoppPolicy

class igmp priority 6 rate 5000 burst 60
class lacp priority 2 rate 2000 burst 1000
default-class priority 1 rate 6000 burst 70

copp-policy default

class acl-logging priority 0 rate 50 burst 50
class arp-broadcast priority 3 rate 7000 burst 7000
class arp-unicast priority 4 rate 2500 burst 2500
class bfd priority 7 rate 1000 burst 1000
<--OUTPUT OMITTED FOR BREVITY-->

default-class priority 1 rate 1000 burst 500

apply copp-policy default
switch#

Displaying the default policy:

AOS-CX 10.16.xxxx CoPP Guide | (8100, 83xx, 93xx, 100xx Switches)

20

| switch# | show | copp-policy |      | default  |      |           |      |          |          |
| ------- | ---- | ----------- | ---- | -------- | ---- | --------- | ---- | -------- | -------- |
| class   |      |             | drop | priority | rate | pps burst | pkts | hardware | rate pps |
--------------------- ---- -------- -------- ---------- -----------------
| acl-logging    |             |                      |         | 0          | 50           | 50   |     | 50   |     |
| -------------- | ----------- | -------------------- | ------- | ---------- | ------------ | ---- | --- | ---- | --- |
| arp-broadcast  |             |                      |         | 3          | 7000         | 7000 |     | 7000 |     |
| arp-unicast    |             |                      |         | 4          | 2500         | 2500 |     | 2500 |     |
| bfd            |             |                      |         | 7          | 1000         | 1000 |     | 1000 |     |
|                | <--OUTPUT   | OMITTED              | FOR     | BREVITY--> |              |      |     |      |     |
| default        |             |                      |         | 1          | 1000         | 500  |     | 1000 |     |
| Command        | History     |                      |         |            |              |      |     |      |     |
| Release        |             |                      |         |            | Modification |      |     |      |     |
| 10.07orearlier |             |                      |         |            | --           |      |     |      |     |
| Command        | Information |                      |         |            |              |      |     |      |     |
| Platforms      |             | Command              | context |            | Authority    |      |     |      |     |
| Allplatforms   |             | Operator(>)orManager |         |            |              |      |     |      |     |
(#)
| show | copp-policy |                 | factory-default |            |     |            |     |     |     |
| ---- | ----------- | --------------- | --------------- | ---------- | --- | ---------- | --- | --- | --- |
| show | copp-policy | factory-default |                 | [commands] |     | [vsx-peer] |     |     |     |
Description
Displaytheconfigurationforthefactory-defaultCoPPpolicy.
| Parameter |     |     |     |     | Description |     |     |     |     |
| --------- | --- | --- | --- | --- | ----------- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
commands
DisplaysoutputasCLIcommands.
vsx-peer ShowstheoutputfromtheVSXpeerswitch.Iftheswitchesdonot
havetheVSXconfigurationortheISLisdown,theoutputfromthe
VSXpeerswitchisnotdisplayed.Thisparameterisavailableon
switchesthatsupportVSX.
Example
Displayingthefactory-defaultpolicy:
| switch#               | show      | copp-policy |      | factory-default |          |            |      |     |     |
| --------------------- | --------- | ----------- | ---- | --------------- | -------- | ---------- | ---- | --- | --- |
| class                 |           |             | drop | priority        | rate     | pps burst  | pkts |     |     |
| --------------------- |           |             | ---- | --------        | -------- | ---------- |      |     |     |
| acl-logging           |           |             |      | 0               | 50       | 50         |      |     |     |
| arp-broadcast         |           |             |      | 3               | 7000     | 7000       |      |     |     |
| arp-unicast           |           |             |      | 4               | 2500     | 2500       |      |     |     |
| bfd                   |           |             |      | 7               | 1000     | 1000       |      |     |     |
|                       | <--OUTPUT | OMITTED     | FOR  | BREVITY-->      |          |            |      |     |     |
| default               |           |             |      | 1               | 1000     | 500        |      |     |     |
DisplayingtheactiveconfigurationofMy_CoppPolicy(My_CoppPolicyisapplied):
ControlPlanePolicing(CoPP)|21

| switch# | config |     | terminal |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |
| ------- | ------ | --- | -------- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
switch(config)#
|                 |     |     | apply   | copp-policy   | My_CoppPolicy |               |       |      |          |          |
| --------------- | --- | --- | ------- | ------------- | ------------- | ------------- | ----- | ---- | -------- | -------- |
| switch(config)# |     |     | do show | copp-policy   |               | My_CoppPolicy |       |      |          |          |
| class           |     |     |         | drop priority |               | rate pps      | burst | pkts | hardware | rate pps |
--------------------- ---- -------- -------- ---------- -----------------
| igmp    |     |     |     | 6   |     | 5000 | 60   |     | 5000 |     |
| ------- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | ---- | ---- | --- | ---- | --- |
| lacp    |     |     |     | 2   |     | 2000 | 1000 |     | 2000 |     |
| default |     |     |     | 1   |     | 6000 | 70   |     | 6000 |     |
DisplayingtheactiveconfigurationofMy_CoppPolicyasCLIcommands:
| switch#     | show          | copp-policy   |               | My_CoppPolicy |      | commands |      |     |     |     |
| ----------- | ------------- | ------------- | ------------- | ------------- | ---- | -------- | ---- | --- | --- | --- |
| copp-policy |               | My_CoppPolicy |               |               |      |          |      |     |     |     |
|             | class         | igmp          | priority      | 6 rate        | 5000 | burst    | 60   |     |     |     |
|             | class         | lacp          | priority      | 2 rate        | 2000 | burst    | 1000 |     |     |     |
|             | default-class |               | priority      | 1 rate        | 6000 | burst    | 70   |     |     |     |
| apply       | copp-policy   |               | My_CoppPolicy |               |      |          |      |     |     |     |
Displayingtheuser-specifiedconfigurationofMy_CoppPolicy:
| switch# | show | copp-policy |     | My_CoppPolicy |     | configuration |       |      |         |     |
| ------- | ---- | ----------- | --- | ------------- | --- | ------------- | ----- | ---- | ------- | --- |
| class   |      |             |     | drop priority |     | rate pps      | burst | pkts | applied |     |
--------------------- ---- -------- -------- ---------- -------
| igmp    |     |     |     | 6   |     | 5000 | 60   |     | yes |     |
| ------- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | ---- | ---- | --- | --- | --- |
| lacp    |     |     |     | 2   |     | 2000 | 1000 |     | yes |     |
| default |     |     |     | 1   |     | 6000 | 70   |     | yes |     |
Displayingtheuser-specifiedconfigurationofMy_CoppPolicyasCLIcommands:
| switch#        | show          | copp-policy          |               | My_CoppPolicy |              | commands |      | configuration |     |     |
| -------------- | ------------- | -------------------- | ------------- | ------------- | ------------ | -------- | ---- | ------------- | --- | --- |
| copp-policy    |               | My_CoppPolicy        |               |               |              |          |      |               |     |     |
|                | class         | igmp                 | priority      | 6 rate        | 5000         | burst    | 60   |               |     |     |
|                | class         | lacp                 | priority      | 2 rate        | 2000         | burst    | 1000 |               |     |     |
|                | default-class |                      | priority      | 1 rate        | 6000         | burst    | 70   |               |     |     |
| apply          | copp-policy   |                      | My_CoppPolicy |               |              |          |      |               |     |     |
| Command        | History       |                      |               |               |              |          |      |               |     |     |
| Release        |               |                      |               |               | Modification |          |      |               |     |     |
| 10.07orearlier |               |                      |               |               | --           |          |      |               |     |     |
| Command        | Information   |                      |               |               |              |          |      |               |     |     |
| Platforms      |               | Command              |               | context       | Authority    |          |      |               |     |     |
| Allplatforms   |               | Operator(>)orManager |               |               |              |          |      |               |     |     |
(#)
| show | copp-policy |     | statistics |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |
| ---- | ----------- | --- | ---------- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
show copp-policy statistics [class <CLASS> | default-class | non-zero] [vsx-peer]
Description
AOS-CX10.16.xxxxCoPPGuide|(8100,83xx,93xx,100xxSwitches) 22

Displaysstatisticsforallclasses,asingleclass,orallclasseswithnon-zerostatisticsintheactiveCoPP
policy.
| Parameter |     |     |     |     | Description |     |     |     |
| --------- | --- | --- | --- | --- | ----------- | --- | --- | --- |
<CLASS>
Specifiestheclassforwhichtodisplaystatistics.
| default-class |     |     |     |     | Displaysstatisticsforthedefaultclass. |     |     |     |
| ------------- | --- | --- | --- | --- | ------------------------------------- | --- | --- | --- |
non-zero
Displaysstatisticsforallclasseswithnon-zerostatistics.
vsx-peer ShowstheoutputfromtheVSXpeerswitch.Iftheswitchesdonot
havetheVSXconfigurationortheISLisdown,theoutputfromthe
VSXpeerswitchisnotdisplayed.Thisparameterisavailableon
switchesthatsupportVSX.
Usage
Ifasingleclassisspecified,thepriority,rate,andburstsizethathasbeenprogrammedinhardwarefor
thatclasswillbeshown.Thiscommandwillfailwithanalertiftheuserspecifiesaclassthatisnot
configuredfortheactivelyappliedCoPPpolicy.
Examples
ApplyingthedefaultCoPPpolicyanddisplayingstatisticsforallclassesintheactivelyappliedpolicy:
Theratedisplayedistheactualrateinhardware.
| switch#         | config |             | terminal    |             |            |     |     |     |
| --------------- | ------ | ----------- | ----------- | ----------- | ---------- | --- | --- | --- |
| switch(config)# |        |             | apply       | copp-policy | default    |     |     |     |
| switch(config)# |        |             | exit        |             |            |     |     |     |
| switch#         | show   | copp-policy |             | statistics  |            |     |     |     |
| Statistics      |        | for         | CoPP policy |             | 'default': |     |     |     |
Totals:
| bytes                   |     | passed | :   | 64000 |     | bytes dropped            | : 96000 |     |
| ----------------------- | --- | ------ | --- | ----- | --- | ------------------------ | ------- | --- |
| packets                 |     | passed | :   | 1000  |     | packets dropped          | : 1500  |     |
| avg_packet_size_passed: |     |        |     |       | 64  | avg_packet_size_dropped: |         | 64  |
Class: default
| bytes                   |     | passed | :   | 25600 |     | bytes dropped            | : 38400 |     |
| ----------------------- | --- | ------ | --- | ----- | --- | ------------------------ | ------- | --- |
| packets                 |     | passed | :   | 400   |     | packets dropped          | : 600   |     |
| avg_packet_size_passed: |     |        |     |       | 64  | avg_packet_size_dropped: |         | 64  |
Class: acl-logging
| bytes                   |     | passed | :   | 6400 |     | bytes dropped            | : 6400 |     |
| ----------------------- | --- | ------ | --- | ---- | --- | ------------------------ | ------ | --- |
| packets                 |     | passed | :   | 100  |     | packets dropped          | : 100  |     |
| avg_packet_size_passed: |     |        |     |      | 64  | avg_packet_size_dropped: |        | 64  |
Class: arp-broadcast
| bytes                   |           | passed | :       | 32000 |            | bytes dropped            | : 51200 |     |
| ----------------------- | --------- | ------ | ------- | ----- | ---------- | ------------------------ | ------- | --- |
| packets                 |           | passed | :       | 500   |            | packets dropped          | : 800   |     |
| avg_packet_size_passed: |           |        |         |       | 64         | avg_packet_size_dropped: |         | 64  |
|                         | <--OUTPUT |        | OMITTED | FOR   | BREVITY--> |                          |         |     |
Displayingstatisticsforthedefaultclassintheactivepolicy:
| switch(config)# |     |     | show copp-policy |     | statistics | default-class |     |     |
| --------------- | --- | --- | ---------------- | --- | ---------- | ------------- | --- | --- |
| Statistics      |     | for | CoPP policy      |     | 'default': |               |     |     |
ControlPlanePolicing(CoPP)|23

| Class:       | default                 |             |         |        |     |                          |         |     |
| ------------ | ----------------------- | ----------- | ------- | ------ | --- | ------------------------ | ------- | --- |
| Description: |                         | Default     |         |        |     |                          |         |     |
|              | priority                |             |         | : 1    |     |                          |         |     |
|              | rate                    | (pps)       |         | : 1000 |     |                          |         |     |
|              | burst                   | size (pkts) |         | : 500  |     |                          |         |     |
|              | bytes                   | passed      | : 25600 |        |     | bytes dropped            | : 38400 |     |
|              | packets                 | passed      | : 400   |        |     | packets dropped          | : 600   |     |
|              | avg_packet_size_passed: |             |         | 64     |     | avg_packet_size_dropped: |         | 64  |
Displayingstatisticsfortheclassarp-broadcastintheactivelyappliedpolicy:
switch#
|                |                         | show copp-policy     |            | statistics | class        | arp-broadcast            |         |     |
| -------------- | ----------------------- | -------------------- | ---------- | ---------- | ------------ | ------------------------ | ------- | --- |
| Statistics     |                         | for CoPP             | policy     | 'default': |              |                          |         |     |
| Class:         | arp-broadcast           |                      |            |            |              |                          |         |     |
| Description:   |                         | Address              | Resolution |            | Protocol     | broadcast                |         |     |
|                | priority                |                      |            | : 3        |              |                          |         |     |
|                | rate                    | (pps)                |            | : 7000     |              |                          |         |     |
|                | burst                   | size (pkts)          |            | : 7000     |              |                          |         |     |
|                | bytes                   | passed               | : 32000    |            |              | bytes dropped            | : 51200 |     |
|                | packets                 | passed               | : 500      |            |              | packets dropped          | : 800   |     |
|                | avg_packet_size_passed: |                      |            | 64         |              | avg_packet_size_dropped: |         | 64  |
| Command        |                         | History              |            |            |              |                          |         |     |
| Release        |                         |                      |            |            | Modification |                          |         |     |
| 10.07orearlier |                         |                      |            |            | --           |                          |         |     |
| Command        |                         | Information          |            |            |              |                          |         |     |
| Platforms      |                         | Command              | context    |            | Authority    |                          |         |     |
| Allplatforms   |                         | Operator(>)orManager |            |            |              |                          |         |     |
(#)
| show | tech      | copp |     |     |     |     |     |     |
| ---- | --------- | ---- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| show | tech copp |      |     |     |     |     |     |     |
Description
DisplaystheoutputofallshowcommandssupportedbyCoPP.
Examples
Capturingthecommandoutputintoalocalfile:
switch#
|     |     | show tech | copp local-file |     |     |     |     |     |
| --- | --- | --------- | --------------- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
Show Tech output stored in local-file. Please use 'copy show-tech local-file' to
| copy-out |            | this file.     |            |     |     |     |     |     |
| -------- | ---------- | -------------- | ---------- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| switch#  |            | copy show-tech | local-file |     | ?   |     |     |     |
|          | REMOTE_URL | URL            | of syntax  |     |     |     |     |     |
AOS-CX10.16.xxxxCoPPGuide|(8100,83xx,93xx,100xxSwitches) 24

{tftp://|sftp://USER@}{IP|HOST}[:PORT][;blocksize=VAL]/FILE
| STORAGE_URL         | URL       | of syntax  | usb:/file    |
| ------------------- | --------- | ---------- | ------------ |
| switch# copy        | show-tech | local-file |              |
| Command History     |           |            |              |
| Release             |           |            | Modification |
| 10.07orearlier      |           |            | --           |
| Command Information |           |            |              |
| Platforms           | Command   | context    | Authority    |
Allplatforms Manager(#) Administratorsorlocalusergroupmemberswithexecution
rightsforthiscommand.
ControlPlanePolicing(CoPP)|25

Chapter 3

Support and Other Resources

Support and Other Resources

Accessing HPE Aruba Networking Support

HPE Aruba Networking Support Services

https://www.hpe.com/us/en/networking/hpe-aruba-networking-
support-services.html

AOS-CX Switch Software Documentation
Portal

https://arubanetworking.hpe.com/techdocs/AOS-CX/help_
portal/Content/home.htm

HPE Aruba Networking Support Portal

https://networkingsupport.hpe.com/home

North America telephone

1-800-943-4526 (US & Canada Toll-Free Number)

+1-650-750-0350 (Backup—Toll Number)

International telephone

https://www.hpe.com/psnow/doc/a50011948enw

Be sure to collect the following information before contacting Support:

n Technical support registration number (if applicable)

n Product name, model or version, and serial number

n Operating system name and version

n Firmware version

n Error messages

n Product-specific reports and logs

n Add-on products or components

n Third-party products or components

Other useful sites

Other websites that can be used to find information:

https://developer.arubanetworks.com/hpe-aruba-networking-aoscx/docs/about

https://community.arubanetworks.com/

Videos on new features introduced in this release:

https://www.youtube.com/playlist?list=PLsYGHuNuBZcbWPEjjHuVMqP-Q_UL3CskS

HPE Aruba
Networking
Developer Hub

Airheads social
forums and
Knowledge Base

AOS-CX

Software

Technical

Update channel

on YouTube.

AOS-CX 10.16.xxxx CoPP Guide | (8100, 83xx, 93xx, 100xx Switches)

26

HPEAruba https://arubanetworking.hpe.com/techdocs/hardware/DocumentationPortal/Content/home.
| Networking | htmm |     |
| ---------- | ---- | --- |
Hardware
Documentation
andTranslations
Portal
| HPEAruba | https://networkingsupport.hpe.com/downloads |     |
| -------- | ------------------------------------------- | --- |
Networking
software
| Software | https://licensemanagement.hpe.com/ |     |
| -------- | ---------------------------------- | --- |
licensingand
FeaturePacks
| End-of-Life | https://networkingsupport.hpe.com/end-of-life |     |
| ----------- | --------------------------------------------- | --- |
information
| Accessing | Updates |     |
| --------- | ------- | --- |
YoucanaccessupdatesfromtheHPEArubaNetworkingSupportPortalat
https://networkingsupport.hpe.com.
Somesoftwareproductsprovideamechanismforaccessingsoftwareupdatesthroughtheproduct
interface.Reviewyourproductdocumentationtoidentifytherecommendedsoftwareupdatemethod.
TosubscribetoeNewslettersandalerts:
https://networkingsupport.hpe./notifications/subscriptions(requiresanactiveHPEArubaNetworking
SupportPortalaccounttomanagesubscriptions).SecuritynoticesareviewablewithoutanHPEAruba
NetworkingSupportPortalaccount.
| Warranty | Information |     |
| -------- | ----------- | --- |
Toviewwarrantyinformationforyourproduct,gotohttps://www.arubanetworks.com/support-
services/product-warranties/.
| Regulatory | Information |     |
| ---------- | ----------- | --- |
Toviewtheregulatoryinformationforyourproduct,viewtheSafetyandComplianceInformationfor
Server,Storage,Power,Networking,andRackProducts,availableathttps://www.hpe.com/support/Safety-
Compliance-EnterpriseProducts
| Additional | regulatory | information |
| ---------- | ---------- | ----------- |
HPEArubaNetworkingiscommittedtoprovidingourcustomerswithinformationaboutthechemical
substancesinourproductsasneededtocomplywithlegalrequirements,environmentaldata(company
programs,productrecycling,energyefficiency),andsafetyinformationandcompliancedata,(RoHSand
WEEE).Formoreinformation,seehttps://www.arubanetworks.com/company/about-us/environmental-
citizenship/.
| Documentation |     | Feedback |
| ------------- | --- | -------- |
HPEArubaNetworkingiscommittedtoprovidingdocumentationthatmeetsyourneeds.Tohelpus
improvethedocumentation,sendanyerrors,suggestions,orcommentstoDocumentationFeedback
SupportandOtherResources|27

(docsfeedback-switching@hpe.com). When submitting your feedback, include the document title, part
number, edition, and publication date located on the front cover of the document. For online help
content, include the product name, product version, help edition, and publication date located on the
legal notices page.

AOS-CX 10.16.xxxx CoPP Guide | (8100, 83xx, 93xx, 100xx Switches)

28