AOS-CX 10.15.xxxx CoPP Guide

4100i, 6000, 6100 Switch Series

Published: January 2025

Version: 1

Copyright Information

© Copyright 2025 Hewlett Packard Enterprise Development LP.

This product includes code licensed under certain open source licenses which require source
compliance. The corresponding source for these components is available upon request. This offer is
valid to anyone in receipt of this information and shall expire three years following the date of the final
distribution of this product version by Hewlett Packard Enterprise Company. To obtain such source
code, please check if the code is available in the HPE Software Center at
https://myenterpriselicense.hpe.com/cwp-ui/software but, if not, send a written request for specific
software version and product for which you want the open source code. Along with the request, please
send a check or money order in the amount of US $10.00 to:

Hewlett Packard Enterprise Company
Attn: General Counsel
WW Corporate Headquarters
1701 E Mossy Oaks Rd Spring, TX 77389
United States of America.

| 2

Notices

The information contained herein is subject to change without notice. The only warranties for Hewlett
Packard Enterprise products and services are set forth in the express warranty statements
accompanying such products and services. Nothing herein should be construed as constituting an
additional warranty. Hewlett Packard Enterprise shall not be liable for technical or editorial errors or
omissions contained herein.

Confidential computer software. Valid license from Hewlett Packard Enterprise required for possession,
use, or copying. Consistent with FAR 12.211 and 12.212, Commercial Computer Software, Computer
Software Documentation, and Technical Data for Commercial Items are licensed to the U.S. Government
under vendor's standard commercial license.

Links to third-party websites take you outside the Hewlett Packard Enterprise website. Hewlett Packard
Enterprise has no control over and is not responsible for information outside the Hewlett Packard
Enterprise website.

AOS-CX 10.15.xxxx CoPP Guide | (4100i, 6000, 6100 Switches)

3

Contents
| About                               | this                           | document |           | 5   |
| ----------------------------------- | ------------------------------ | -------- | --------- | --- |
| Applicableproducts                  |                                |          |           | 5   |
| Latestversionavailableonline        |                                |          |           | 5   |
| Commandsyntaxnotationconventions    |                                |          |           | 5   |
| Abouttheexamples                    |                                |          |           | 6   |
| Identifyingswitchportsandinterfaces |                                |          |           | 6   |
| Control                             | Plane                          | Policing | (CoPP)    | 8   |
| Overview                            |                                |          |           | 8   |
| ConfiguringCoPP                     |                                |          |           | 8   |
| Actualratesinhardware               |                                |          |           | 9   |
| CoPPcommands                        |                                |          |           | 9   |
|                                     | Classesoftraffic               |          |           | 9   |
|                                     | applycopp-policy               |          |           | 10  |
|                                     | class                          |          |           | 11  |
|                                     | clearcopp-policystatistics     |          |           | 12  |
|                                     | copp-policy                    |          |           | 13  |
|                                     | default-class                  |          |           | 14  |
|                                     | resetcopp-policy               |          |           | 15  |
|                                     | showcopp-policy                |          |           | 16  |
|                                     | showcopp-policyfactory-default |          |           | 18  |
|                                     | showcopp-policystatistics      |          |           | 19  |
|                                     | showtechcopp                   |          |           | 20  |
| Support                             | and                            | Other    | Resources | 22  |
| AccessingHPEArubaNetworkingSupport  |                                |          |           | 22  |
| AccessingUpdates                    |                                |          |           | 23  |
| WarrantyInformation                 |                                |          |           | 23  |
| RegulatoryInformation               |                                |          |           | 23  |
| DocumentationFeedback               |                                |          |           | 23  |
4
AOS-CX10.15.xxxxCoPPGuide| (4100i,6000,6100Switches)

Chapter 1

About this document

About this document

This document describes features of the AOS-CX network operating system. It is intended for
administrators responsible for installing, configuring, and managing HPE Aruba Networking switches on
a network.

Applicable products

This document applies to the following products:

n HPE Aruba Networking 4100i Switch Series (JL817A, JL818A)

n HPE Aruba Networking 6000 Switch Series (R8N85A, R8N86A, R8N87A, R8N88A, R8N89A, R9Y03A)

n HPE Aruba Networking 6100 Switch Series (JL675A, JL676A, JL677A, JL678A, JL679A)

Latest version available online

Updates to this document can occur after initial publication. For the latest versions of product
documentation, see the links provided in Support and Other Resources.

Command syntax notation conventions

Convention

example-text

Usage

Identifies commands and their options and operands, code examples,
filenames, pathnames, and output displayed in a command window. Items
that appear like the example text in the previous column are to be entered
exactly as shown and are required unless enclosed in brackets ([ ]).

example-text

In code and screen examples, indicates text entered by a user.

Any of the following:
n <example-text>
n <example-text>
n example-text

n example-text

|

Identifies a placeholder—such as a parameter or a variable—that you must
substitute with an actual value in a command or in code:

n For output formats where italic text cannot be displayed, variables
are enclosed in angle brackets (< >). Substitute the text—including
the enclosing angle brackets—with an actual value.

n For output formats where italic text can be displayed, variables

might or might not be enclosed in angle brackets. Substitute the
text including the enclosing angle brackets, if any, with an actual
value.

Vertical bar. A logical OR that separates multiple items from which you can
choose only one.
Any spaces that are on either side of the vertical bar are included for
readability and are not a required part of the command syntax.

AOS-CX 10.15.xxxx CoPP Guide | (4100i, 6000, 6100 Switches)

5

| Convention |     | Usage |     |
| ---------- | --- | ----- | --- |
{ } Braces.Indicatesthatatleastoneoftheencloseditemsisrequired.
| [ ] |     | Brackets.Indicatesthattheencloseditemoritemsareoptional. |     |
| --- | --- | -------------------------------------------------------- | --- |
| …or |     | Ellipsis:                                                |     |
... n Incodeandscreenexamples,averticalorhorizontalellipsisindicatesan
omissionofinformation.
n Insyntaxusingbracketsandbraces,anellipsisindicatesitemsthatcanbe
repeated.Whenanitemfollowedbyellipsesisenclosedinbrackets,zero
ormoreitemscanbespecified.
| About | the examples |     |     |
| ----- | ------------ | --- | --- |
Examplesinthisdocumentarerepresentativeandmightnotmatchyourparticularswitchor
environment.
Theslotandportnumbersinthisdocumentareforillustrationonlyandmightbeunavailableonyour
switch.
| Understanding | the CLI prompts |     |     |
| ------------- | --------------- | --- | --- |
Whenillustratingthepromptsinthecommandlineinterface(CLI),thisdocumentusesthegenericterm
switch,insteadofthehostnameoftheswitch.Forexample:
switch>
TheCLIpromptindicatesthecurrentcommandcontext.Forexample:
switch>
Indicatestheoperatorcommandcontext.
switch#
Indicatesthemanagercommandcontext.
switch(CONTEXT-NAME)#
Indicatestheconfigurationcontextforafeature.Forexample:
switch(config-if)#
Identifiestheinterfacecontext.
| Variable | information in | CLI prompts |     |
| -------- | -------------- | ----------- | --- |
Incertainconfigurationcontexts,thepromptmayincludevariableinformation.Forexample,whenin
theVLANconfigurationcontext,aVLANnumberappearsintheprompt:
switch(config-vlan-100)#
Whenreferringtothiscontext,thisdocumentusesthesyntax:
switch(config-vlan-<VLAN-ID>)#
Where<VLAN-ID>isavariablerepresentingtheVLANnumber.
| Identifying | switch | ports and | interfaces |
| ----------- | ------ | --------- | ---------- |
Physicalportsontheswitchandtheircorrespondinglogicalsoftwareinterfacesareidentifiedusingthe
format:member/slot/port.
| On the HPE | Aruba Networking | 4100i Switch | Series |
| ---------- | ---------------- | ------------ | ------ |
Aboutthisdocument|6

n member: Always 1. VSF is not supported on this switch.

n slot: Always 1. This is not a modular switch, so there are no slots.

n port: Physical number of a port on the switch.

For example, the logical interface 1/1/4 in software is associated with physical port 4 on the switch.

On the HPE Aruba Networking 6000 and 6100 Switch Series

n member: Always 1. VSF is not supported on this switch.

n slot: Always 1. This is not a modular switch, so there are no slots.

n port: Physical number of a port on the switch.

For example, the logical interface 1/1/4 in software is associated with physical port 4 on the switch.

AOS-CX 10.15.xxxx CoPP Guide | (4100i, 6000, 6100 Switches)

7

Chapter 2

Control Plane Policing (CoPP)

Control Plane Policing (CoPP)

Overview

CoPP provides a way for administrators to protect the management processor on the switch from high
packet loads (generated by malicious or nonmalicious sources) that might interfere with its ability to
keep data plane traffic flowing. For example, a denial of service attack can result in excessive traffic that
would slow down the management processor and negatively affect switch throughput.

A CoPP policy is composed of one or more classes. Each class defines one or more target protocols and
how their traffic is managed. Every policy also has a default class to regulate packets that do not match
any other class. The following actions can be applied for all packets matching a class:

n Drop the packets. (Excluding the default class.)

n Set the processing priority in the range 0 to 6 (0 - highest priority and 6 - lowest priority).

n Set the maximum data rate in packets per second (pps) at which each line module can send packets

to the management processor.

Up to 32 CoPP policies can be defined, but only one can be active on the switch at a time. A CoPP policy
must always be active on the switch. By default, the switch has a CoPP policy named default which is
automatically applied at first boot.

When the switch reboots, the CoPP policy that was actively applied to the switch before the reboot
occurred s applied if it was saved to the startup configuration with the copy running-config startup-
config command.

Configuring CoPP

Procedure

1. Configure the default CoPP policy, edit an existing policy, or create a policy with the command

copp-policy.

2. Add, edit, or remove classes in the policy with the command class.

3.

If the policy is not the active policy on the switch, apply it with the command apply copp-policy.
(Changes made to an active policy take effect immediately and do not need to be applied.)

4. Review the CoPP policy configuration settings with the command show copp-policy.

Example

This example creates the following configuration:

n Defines a new policy named My_CoppPolicy.

n Adds two classes to the policy.

n Activates the policy.

n Displays policy configuration settings.

AOS-CX 10.15.xxxx CoPP Guide | (4100i, 6000, 6100 Switches)

8

| switch(config)# |     |     | copp-policy | My_CoppPolicy |     |     |     |
| --------------- | --- | --- | ----------- | ------------- | --- | --- | --- |
switch(config-copp)#
|                       |       |             | class    | igmp          | priority      | 6 rate 5000       |          |
| --------------------- | ----- | ----------- | -------- | ------------- | ------------- | ----------------- | -------- |
| switch(config-copp)#  |       |             | class    | lacp          | priority      | 2 rate 2000       |          |
| switch(config-copp)#  |       |             | exit     |               |               |                   |          |
| switch(config)#       |       |             | apply    | copp-policy   | My_CoppPolicy |                   |          |
| switch(config)#       |       |             | exit     |               |               |                   |          |
| switch#               | show  | copp-policy |          | My_CoppPolicy |               |                   |          |
| class                 |       |             |          | drop priority | rate          | pps hardware      | rate pps |
| --------------------- |       |             |          | ---- -------- | --------      | ----------------- |          |
| igmp                  |       |             |          | 6             | 5000          | 5000              |          |
| lacp                  |       |             |          | 2             | 2000          | 2000              |          |
| default               |       |             |          | 1             | 6000          | 6000              |          |
| Actual                | rates | in          | hardware |               |               |                   |          |
Currently,theactualrateinhardwareisdeterminedbyamappingbasedontheconfiguredrate,shown
bythefollowingtableofthefirstnineactualrates.
Theprecedingtableshowsthefirstnineactualratesavailableinhardware.Higherratesareavailable.
The'show copp-policy statistics class <CLASS>'commandcanbeusedtoshowtheactualratein
hardwareforaspecificclass.The'show copp-policy <NAME>'commandcanbeusedtoshowtheactual
ratesforallclassesconfiguredinaspecificCoPPpolicy,ifthepolicyisactivelyapplied.
| CoPP    | commands |         |     |     |     |     |     |
| ------- | -------- | ------- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| Classes | of       | traffic |     |     |     |     |     |
Thedifferentclassesoftrafficthatcanbeindividuallyconfiguredare:
AppliestotheHPEArubaNetworking4100,6000and6100SwitchSeries.
n arp-broadcast:AddressResolutionProtocolpacketswithabroadcastdestinationMACaddress.
n arp-protect
n arp-unicast:AddressResolutionProtocolpacketswithaswitchsystemdestinationMACaddress.
captive-portal:PacketsinterceptedinsupportoftheCaptivePortalfeature.
n
n central-packet-capture:PacketsinterceptedinsupportoftheCentralPacketCapturefeature.
n dhcp:DynamicHostConfigurationProtocolpackets.AlsoincludessnoopedDHCPpacketsifDHCP
snoopingisenabled.
n erps:EthernetRingProtectionSwitchingcontrolpacketswiththedestinationMACaddress
01:19:a7:00:00:XX,whereXXcanbeanyvalue.
icmp-broadcast-ipv4:InternetControlMessageProtocolpacketswithabroadcastormulticast
n
destinationIPv4address.
n icmp-multicast-ipv6:InternetControlMessageProtocolpacketswithawell-knownmulticast
destinationIPv6address.
n icmp-unicast-ipv4:InternetControlMessageProtocolpacketswithadestinationIPv4address
ownedbytheswitch
n icmp-unicast-ipv6:InternetControlMessageProtocolpacketswithadestinationIPv6address
ownedbytheswitch.
n ieee-8021x:IEEE802.1XprotocolpacketswithEtherType0x0888E.
n igmp:InternetGroupManagementProtocolpackets.
ControlPlanePolicing(CoPP)|9

n lacp: Link Aggregation Control Protocol packets with the destination MAC address 01:80:c2:00:00:02.

n lldp: Link Layer Discovery Protocol packets with the destination MAC address 01:80:c2:00:00:0e.

n loop-protect: Loop Protection packets with the destination MAC address 09:00:09:09:13:a6.

n manageability: Unicast IP packets addressed to the switch for specific protocols that do not have a

dedicated CoPP class like HTTP, SSH, Telnet, and RADIUS.

n mdns: Multicast Domain Name System packets.

The mdns class is not supported for HPE Aruba Networking 4100i Switch series.

n mvrp: Multiple VLAN Registration Protocol packets with the destination MAC address

01:80:c2:00:00:20 or 01:80:c2:00:00:21

n ntp: Network Time Protocol packets with a destination IP address owned by the switch.

n smartlink:

n stp: Spanning Tree Protocol (STP) packets with the destination MAC address 01:80:c2:00:00:00 or Per-

VLAN Spanning Tree (PVST) packets with the destination MAC address 01:00:0c:cc:cc:cd.

n udld: Unidirectional Link Detection packets with the destination MAC address 01:00:0c:cc:cc:cc or

00:e0:52:00:00:00, or Cisco Discovery Protocol packets with the destination MAC address
01:00:0c:cc:cc:cc.

n unresolved-ip-unicast: Packets to be software forwarded by the management processor.

To regulate any other traffic destined for the CPU, every CoPP policy has a class named default that can
also be configured to regulate other traffic to the CPU or prevent other traffic from being delivered.

All IPsec traffic received by the CPU will be regulated by the ipsec class regardless of the encapsulated protocol.

apply copp-policy
apply copp-policy { <NAME> | default }
no apply copp-policy <NAME>

Description

Applies a CoPP policy to the switch, replacing the policy that is in effect. There may be a brief
interruption in traffic flow to the management processor while the switch implements the change.

Enter the no apply copp-policy <NAME> command with the name of a CoPP policy to unapply a CoPP
policy and apply the default CoPP policy. This will only take effect if the specified policy is actively
applied. Since there must always be a CoPP policy applied, this command effectively attempts to replace
the applied CoPP policy with the default CoPP policy. The default CoPP policy cannot be unapplied using
this command.

Parameter

Description

<NAME>

default

Usage

Specifies the name of the policy to apply. Length: 1 to 64
characters.

Applies the default policy.

AOS-CX 10.15.xxxx CoPP Guide | (4100i, 6000, 6100 Switches)

10

Ifthenewpolicycannotbeapplied(forexample,duetoalackofhardwareresources),theprevious
policyremainsineffect.Usetheshowcopp-policycommandtodeterminewhichpolicyisineffect.
Examples
ApplyingapolicynamedMy_CoppPolicy:
| switch(config)# |     | apply | copp-policy |     | My_CoppPolicy |     |
| --------------- | --- | ----- | ----------- | --- | ------------- | --- |
Applyingthedefaultpolicy:
| switch(config)# |     | apply | copp-policy |     | default |     |
| --------------- | --- | ----- | ----------- | --- | ------- | --- |
UnapplyingapolicynamedMy_CoppPolicy:
| switch(config)# |     | no  | apply | copp-policy | My_CoppPolicy |     |
| --------------- | --- | --- | ----- | ----------- | ------------- | --- |
Formoreinformationonfeaturesthatusethiscommand,refertotheCoPPGuideforyourswitchmodel.
| Command        | History     |     |         |     |              |     |
| -------------- | ----------- | --- | ------- | --- | ------------ | --- |
| Release        |             |     |         |     | Modification |     |
| 10.07orearlier |             |     |         |     | --           |     |
| Command        | Information |     |         |     |              |     |
| Platforms      | Command     |     | context |     | Authority    |     |
Allplatforms config Administratorsorlocalusergroupmemberswithexecution
rightsforthiscommand.
class
| class <CLASS>    | {drop | |     | priority   | <PRIORITY> |            | rate <RATE>} |
| ---------------- | ----- | ----- | ---------- | ---------- | ---------- | ------------ |
| no class <CLASS> |       | {drop | | priority |            | <PRIORITY> | rate <RATE>} |
Description
AddsaclasstoaCoPPpolicy.Iftheclassexists,theexistingclassismodified.Changesmadetoan
active(applied)policytakeeffectimmediately.
Whenaddingormodifyingaclassinanactivepolicy,CoPPimmediatelyactivatesthechangeonthe
switch.Incaseswhereinsufficienthardwareresourcesexisttosupportaclassoritsaction,CoPPfailsto
activatethechangedclassontheswitch.Whenthisfailureoccurs,theactiveconfigurationontheswitch
willbeoutofsyncwithitsdefinition.Todiagnoseandremedythissituation:
n Usetheshowcopp-policycommandtodeterminewhichclassesareoutofsyncbetweentheactive
policyanditsdefinition.
n Usetheresetcopp-policycommandtosynchronizetheactivepolicywithitsdefinition.This
synchronizationchangestheclassesinthedefinitiontomatchtheclassesintheactivepolicy.
ControlPlanePolicing(CoPP)|11

Thenoformofthiscommandremovestheconfigurationfortheclass.Trafficfortheclasswillbe
prioritizedandregulatedusingthefactorydefaultconfigurationfortheclass.Usetheshow copp-policy
factory-defaultcommandtodisplaythefactorydefaultCoPPpolicy.Tostopaclassoftrafficfrom
reachingtheprocessor,settheclassactiontodrop.
| Parameter |     |     | Description                          |     |
| --------- | --- | --- | ------------------------------------ | --- |
| <CLASS>   |     |     | Specifiestheclasstoaddoredit.        |     |
| drop      |     |     | Droppacketsmatchingtheselectedclass. |     |
priority <PRIORITY> Specifiesthepriorityforpacketsmatchingtheselectedclass.
Range:0to6.
rate <RATE>
Specifiesthemaximumrate,inpacketspersecond(pps),for
packetsmatchingtheselectedclass.Range:25to99999.
Examples
AddingaclasstohandleLACPtrafficwithpriorityof2andrateof2000:
| switch(config-copp)# |     | class lacp | priority | 2 rate 2000 |
| -------------------- | --- | ---------- | -------- | ----------- |
ModifyingtheclasstodropLLDPpackets:
| switch(config-copp)# |     | class lldp | drop |     |
| -------------------- | --- | ---------- | ---- | --- |
RemovingtheclassthathandlesLLDPpackets.
| switch(config-copp)# |     | no class | lldp |     |
| -------------------- | --- | -------- | ---- | --- |
Formoreinformationonfeaturesthatusethiscommand,refertotheCoPPGuideforyourswitchmodel.
| Command History     |         |         |              |     |
| ------------------- | ------- | ------- | ------------ | --- |
| Release             |         |         | Modification |     |
| 10.07orearlier      |         |         | --           |     |
| Command Information |         |         |              |     |
| Platforms           | Command | context | Authority    |     |
Allplatforms config-copp Administratorsorlocalusergroupmemberswithexecution
rightsforthiscommand.
| clear copp-policy |            | statistics |     |     |
| ----------------- | ---------- | ---------- | --- | --- |
| clear copp-policy | statistics |            |     |     |
Description
AOS-CX10.15.xxxxCoPPGuide|(4100i,6000,6100Switches) 12

ResetsstatisticsforallCoPPclassestozero.
Examples
Displayingandthenresettingstatisticsforallclassesintheactivepolicy:
Formoreinformationonfeaturesthatusethiscommand,refertotheCoPPGuideforyourswitchmodel.
| Command        | History     |         |              |
| -------------- | ----------- | ------- | ------------ |
| Release        |             |         | Modification |
| 10.07orearlier |             |         | --           |
| Command        | Information |         |              |
| Platforms      | Command     | context | Authority    |
Allplatforms Operator(>)orManager OperatorsorAdministratorsorlocalusergroupmemberswith
|     | (#) |     | executionrightsforthiscommand.Operatorscanexecutethis |
| --- | --- | --- | ----------------------------------------------------- |
commandfromtheoperatorcontext(>)only.
copp-policy
| copp-policy    | {<NAME> | | default [revert]} |     |
| -------------- | ------- | ------------------- | --- |
| no copp-policy | <NAME>  |                     |     |
Description
CreatesaCoPPpolicyandswitchestotheconfig-coppcontextforthepolicy.Or,ifthespecifiedpolicy
exists,switchestotheconfig-coppcontextforthepolicy.Apredefinedpolicy,nameddefault,contains
factorydefaultclassesandisappliedtotheswitchatfirststartup.Thispolicycannotbedeleted,butits
configurationcanbechanged.
ThenoformofthiscommandremovesaCoPPpolicy.Ifapolicyisactive(applied),itcannotberemoved
.Itmustbereplacedwithanotherpolicybeforeitcanberemoved.
| Parameter |     |     | Description                                         |
| --------- | --- | --- | --------------------------------------------------- |
| <NAME>    |     |     | Specifiesthenameofthepolicytoaddoredit.Length:1to64 |
characters.Thenamemustnotbeasubstringofanyofthe
followingreservedwords:default,factory-default,commands,
configuration,orstatistics.
| default |     |     | SpecifiesthedefaultCoPPpolicy.Usethisdefaultpolicyto |
| ------- | --- | --- | ---------------------------------------------------- |
configurethedefaultpolicy.
| revert |     |     | SetsthedefaultCoPPpolicytoitsfactorysettings. |
| ------ | --- | --- | --------------------------------------------- |
Examples
CreatingapolicynamedMy_CoppPolicy:
ControlPlanePolicing(CoPP)|13

| switch(config)# | copp-policy |     | My_CoppPolicy |     |
| --------------- | ----------- | --- | ------------- | --- |
switch(config-copp)#
RemovingapolicynamedMy_CoppPolicy:
| switch(config)# | no  | copp-policy |     | My_CoppPolicy |
| --------------- | --- | ----------- | --- | ------------- |
Settingthedefaultpolicytoitsfactorysettings:
| switch(config)# | copp-policy |     | default | revert |
| --------------- | ----------- | --- | ------- | ------ |
UnapplyingthepolicynamedMy_CoppPolicy:
| switch(config)# | no  | apply | copp-policy | My_CoppPolicy |
| --------------- | --- | ----- | ----------- | ------------- |
Formoreinformationonfeaturesthatusethiscommand,refertotheCoPPGuideforyourswitchmodel.
| Command        | History     |         |     |              |
| -------------- | ----------- | ------- | --- | ------------ |
| Release        |             |         |     | Modification |
| 10.07orearlier |             |         |     | --           |
| Command        | Information |         |     |              |
| Platforms      | Command     | context |     | Authority    |
config
Allplatforms Administratorsorlocalusergroupmemberswithexecution
rightsforthiscommand.
default-class
| default-class | priority | <PRIORITY> |     | rate <RATE> |
| ------------- | -------- | ---------- | --- | ----------- |
Description
ConfiguresthedefaultclassthatisautomaticallydefinedforallCoPPpolicies.Thedefaultclasscannot
beremoved,butitsconfigurationcanbechanged.Thedefaultclassisappliedtotrafficthatdoesnot
matchanyotherclassdefinedforapolicy.
| Parameter |     |     |     | Description |
| --------- | --- | --- | --- | ----------- |
priority <PRIORITY> Specifiesthepriorityforpacketsmatchingtheselectedclass.
Range:0to7.
rate <RATE> Specifiesthemaximumrate,inpacketspersecond(pps),for
packetsmatchingtheselectedclass.Range:25to99999.
Example
AOS-CX10.15.xxxxCoPPGuide|(4100i,6000,6100Switches) 14

Settingthedefaultclasstoapriorityof2andrateof2000:
| switch(config-copp)# |     | default-class |     | priority |     | 2 rate | 2000 |
| -------------------- | --- | ------------- | --- | -------- | --- | ------ | ---- |
Formoreinformationonfeaturesthatusethiscommand,refertotheCoPPGuideforyourswitchmodel.
| Command History     |         |         |     |              |     |     |     |
| ------------------- | ------- | ------- | --- | ------------ | --- | --- | --- |
| Release             |         |         |     | Modification |     |     |     |
| 10.07orearlier      |         |         |     | --           |     |     |     |
| Command Information |         |         |     |              |     |     |     |
| Platforms           | Command | context |     | Authority    |     |     |     |
Allplatforms config-copp Administratorsorlocalusergroupmemberswithexecution
rightsforthiscommand.
reset copp-policy
| reset copp-policy | { <NAME> |     | | default | }   |     |     |     |
| ----------------- | -------- | --- | --------- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
Description
ResetsanactiveCoPPpolicytomatchthesettingsthatarecurrentlyineffectfortheactivepolicyonthe
switch.Changesmadetotheactivepolicythatcouldnotbeactivatedareremovedfromtheactive
policy.WhentheswitchfailstoaddormodifyaclassinanactiveCoPPpolicy,itispossibletheactive
policysettingsontheswitchmaybeoutofsyncwiththosedefinedinthepolicy.
| Parameter |     |     |     | Description |     |     |     |
| --------- | --- | --- | --- | ----------- | --- | --- | --- |
<NAME>
Specifiesthenameofthepolicytoreset.Length:1to64
characters.
| default |     |     |     | Resetsthedefaultpolicytomatchitsactivesettings. |     |     |     |
| ------- | --- | --- | --- | ----------------------------------------------- | --- | --- | --- |
Examples
ResettingapolicynamedMy_CoppPolicy:
| switch# show          | copp-policy |       | My_CoppPolicy    |          |               |                   |          |
| --------------------- | ----------- | ----- | ---------------- | -------- | ------------- | ----------------- | -------- |
| class                 |             | drop  | priority         | rate     | pps           | hardware          | rate pps |
| --------------------- |             | ----  | --------         | -------- |               | ----------------- |          |
| igmp                  |             |       | 6                | 5000     |               | 5000              |          |
| lacp                  |             |       | 2                | 2000     |               | 2000              |          |
| default               |             |       | 1                | 6000     |               | 6000              |          |
| switch# config        | terminal    |       |                  |          |               |                   |          |
| switch(config)#       | copp-policy |       | My_CoppPolicy    |          |               |                   |          |
| switch(config-copp)#  |             | class | stp              | priority | 4 rate        | 4000              |          |
| switch(config-copp)#  |             | do    | show copp-policy |          | My_CoppPolicy |                   |          |
| class                 |             | drop  | priority         | rate     | pps           | hardware          | rate pps |
ControlPlanePolicing(CoPP)|15

| --------------------- |     | ---- -------- | -------- | ----------------- |
| --------------------- | --- | ------------- | -------- | ----------------- |
| igmp                  |     | 6             | 5000     | 5000              |
| lacp                  |     | 2             | 2000     | 2000              |
| default               |     | 1             | 6000     | 6000              |
% Warning: user-specified classes in CoPP policy My_CoppPolicy do not match
| active configuration. |     |     |     |     |
| --------------------- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
switch(config-copp)# do show copp-policy My_CoppPolicy configuration
| class                 |     | drop priority | rate pps | applied |
| --------------------- | --- | ------------- | -------- | ------- |
| --------------------- |     | ---- -------- | -------- | ------- |
| igmp                  |     | 6             | 5000     | yes     |
| lacp                  |     | 2             | 2000     | yes     |
| stp                   |     | 4             | 4000     | no      |
| default               |     | 1             | 6000     | yes     |
% Warning: user-specified classes in CoPP policy My_CoppPolicy do not match
| active configuration. |       |                  |               |                   |
| --------------------- | ----- | ---------------- | ------------- | ----------------- |
| switch(config-copp)#  |       | exit             |               |                   |
| switch(config)#       | reset | copp-policy      | My_CoppPolicy |                   |
| switch(config)#       | do    | show copp-policy | My_CoppPolicy |                   |
| class                 |       | drop priority    | rate pps      | hardware rate pps |
| --------------------- |       | ---- --------    | --------      | ----------------- |
| igmp                  |       | 6                | 5000          | 5000              |
| lacp                  |       | 2                | 2000          | 2000              |
| default               |       | 1                | 6000          | 6000              |
Resettingthedefaultpolicy:
| switch(config)# | reset | copp-policy | default |     |
| --------------- | ----- | ----------- | ------- | --- |
Formoreinformationonfeaturesthatusethiscommand,refertotheCoPPGuideforyourswitchmodel.
| Command History     |         |         |              |     |
| ------------------- | ------- | ------- | ------------ | --- |
| Release             |         |         | Modification |     |
| 10.07orearlier      |         |         | --           |     |
| Command Information |         |         |              |     |
| Platforms           | Command | context | Authority    |     |
Allplatforms config Administratorsorlocalusergroupmemberswithexecution
rightsforthiscommand.
show copp-policy
show copp-policy [<NAME> | default] [commands] [configuration]
Description
ShowsCoPPpolicysettingsforaspecificCoPPpolicy.Whenenteredwithoutspecifyingeitheranameor
thedefaultparameter,showsalltheCoPPpolicysettingsthatareactiveontheswitchandhave
successfullybeenprogrammedintothehardware.
Awarningisdisplayedif:
AOS-CX10.15.xxxxCoPPGuide|(4100i,6000,6100Switches) 16

n Theactiveanduser-specifiedapplicationsofapolicydonotmatch.
n Theactiveanduser-specifiedconfigurationsofapolicydonotmatch.
| Parameter |     |     | Description |     |     |
| --------- | --- | --- | ----------- | --- | --- |
<NAME>
Specifiesthenameofthepolicyforwhichtodisplaysettings.
Length:1to64characters.
| default  |     |     | DisplaysCoPPsettingsforthedefaultpolicy. |     |     |
| -------- | --- | --- | ---------------------------------------- | --- | --- |
| commands |     |     | DisplaysoutputasCLIcommands.             |     |     |
configuration Displaysuser-specifiedCoPPsettingsandnottheactivesettings.
Example
DisplayingtheCoPPpoliciesdefinedintheconfigurationandtheactiveapplication:
switch#
show copp-policy
| applied copp_policy_name |     |     |     |     |     |
| ------------------------ | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| ------- ---------------- |     |     |     |     |     |
My_CoppPolicy
| applied default |     |     |     |     |     |
| --------------- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
switch#
DisplayingtheactiveconfigurationofallCoPPpoliciesasCLIcommands:
Displayingthedefaultpolicy:
| switch# show          | copp-policy | default        |          |                   |          |
| --------------------- | ----------- | -------------- | -------- | ----------------- | -------- |
| class                 |             | drop priority  | rate pps | hardware          | rate pps |
| --------------------- |             | ---- --------  | -------- | ----------------- |          |
| arp-broadcast         |             | 2              | 1250     | 1250              |          |
| arp-unicast           |             | 3              | 825      | 825               |          |
| <--OUTPUT             | OMITTED     | FOR BREVITY--> |          |                   |          |
| default               |             | 2              | 4225     | 4225              |          |
Formoreinformationonfeaturesthatusethiscommand,refertotheCoPPGuideforyourswitchmodel.
| Command History     |         |         |              |     |     |
| ------------------- | ------- | ------- | ------------ | --- | --- |
| Release             |         |         | Modification |     |     |
| 10.07orearlier      |         |         | --           |     |     |
| Command Information |         |         |              |     |     |
| Platforms           | Command | context | Authority    |     |     |
Allplatforms Operator(>)orManager OperatorsorAdministratorsorlocalusergroupmemberswith
executionrightsforthiscommand.Operatorscanexecutethis
(#)
commandfromtheoperatorcontext(>)only.
ControlPlanePolicing(CoPP)|17

| show | copp-policy |                 | factory-default |            |     |     |     |     |
| ---- | ----------- | --------------- | --------------- | ---------- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| show | copp-policy | factory-default |                 | [commands] |     |     |     |     |
Description
Displaytheconfigurationforthefactory-defaultCoPPpolicy.
| Parameter |     |     |     |     | Description                  |     |     |     |
| --------- | --- | --- | --- | --- | ---------------------------- | --- | --- | --- |
| commands  |     |     |     |     | DisplaysoutputasCLIcommands. |     |     |     |
Example
Displayingthefactory-defaultpolicy:
| switch#               | show      | copp-policy |     | factory-default |     |          |     |     |
| --------------------- | --------- | ----------- | --- | --------------- | --- | -------- | --- | --- |
| class                 |           |             |     | drop priority   |     | rate pps |     |     |
| --------------------- |           |             |     | ---- --------   |     | -------- |     |     |
| arp-broadcast         |           |             |     | 2               |     | 1250     |     |     |
| arp-unicast           |           |             |     | 3               |     | 825      |     |     |
|                       | <--OUTPUT | OMITTED     |     | FOR BREVITY-->  |     |          |     |     |
| default               |           |             |     | 2               |     | 4225     |     |     |
DisplayingtheactiveconfigurationofMy_CoppPolicy(My_CoppPolicyisapplied):
| switch#               | config |     | terminal |               |               |               |                   |          |
| --------------------- | ------ | --- | -------- | ------------- | ------------- | ------------- | ----------------- | -------- |
| switch(config)#       |        |     | apply    | copp-policy   | My_CoppPolicy |               |                   |          |
| switch(config)#       |        |     | do show  | copp-policy   |               | My_CoppPolicy |                   |          |
| class                 |        |     |          | drop priority |               | rate pps      | hardware          | rate pps |
| --------------------- |        |     |          | ---- -------- |               | --------      | ----------------- |          |
| igmp                  |        |     |          | 6             |               | 5000          | 5000              |          |
| lacp                  |        |     |          | 2             |               | 2000          | 2000              |          |
| default               |        |     |          | 1             |               | 6000          | 6000              |          |
DisplayingtheactiveconfigurationofMy_CoppPolicyasCLIcommands:
| switch#     | show          | copp-policy   |               | My_CoppPolicy |      | commands |     |     |
| ----------- | ------------- | ------------- | ------------- | ------------- | ---- | -------- | --- | --- |
| copp-policy |               | My_CoppPolicy |               |               |      |          |     |     |
|             | class         | igmp          | priority      | 6 rate        | 5000 |          |     |     |
|             | class         | lacp          | priority      | 2 rate        | 2000 |          |     |     |
|             | default-class |               | priority      | 1 rate        | 6000 |          |     |     |
| apply       | copp-policy   |               | My_CoppPolicy |               |      |          |     |     |
Displayingtheuser-specifiedconfigurationofMy_CoppPolicy:
| switch#               | show | copp-policy |     | My_CoppPolicy |     | configuration |         |     |
| --------------------- | ---- | ----------- | --- | ------------- | --- | ------------- | ------- | --- |
| class                 |      |             |     | drop priority |     | rate pps      | applied |     |
| --------------------- |      |             |     | ---- -------- |     | --------      | ------- |     |
| igmp                  |      |             |     | 6             |     | 5000          | yes     |     |
| lacp                  |      |             |     | 2             |     | 2000          | yes     |     |
| default               |      |             |     | 1             |     | 6000          | yes     |     |
Displayingtheuser-specifiedconfigurationofMy_CoppPolicyasCLIcommands:
AOS-CX10.15.xxxxCoPPGuide|(4100i,6000,6100Switches) 18

| switch#     | show          | copp-policy   |               | My_CoppPolicy |      | commands configuration |
| ----------- | ------------- | ------------- | ------------- | ------------- | ---- | ---------------------- |
| copp-policy |               | My_CoppPolicy |               |               |      |                        |
|             | class         | igmp          | priority      | 6 rate        | 5000 |                        |
|             | class         | lacp          | priority      | 2 rate        | 2000 |                        |
|             | default-class |               | priority      | 1 rate        | 6000 |                        |
| apply       | copp-policy   |               | My_CoppPolicy |               |      |                        |
Formoreinformationonfeaturesthatusethiscommand,refertotheCoPPGuideforyourswitchmodel.
| Command        | History     |         |     |         |              |     |
| -------------- | ----------- | ------- | --- | ------- | ------------ | --- |
| Release        |             |         |     |         | Modification |     |
| 10.07orearlier |             |         |     |         | --           |     |
| Command        | Information |         |     |         |              |     |
| Platforms      |             | Command |     | context | Authority    |     |
Allplatforms Operator(>)orManager OperatorsorAdministratorsorlocalusergroupmemberswith
executionrightsforthiscommand.Operatorscanexecutethis
(#)
commandfromtheoperatorcontext(>)only.
| show | copp-policy |     | statistics |     |     |     |
| ---- | ----------- | --- | ---------- | --- | --- | --- |
show copp-policy statistics [class <CLASS> | default-class | non-zero]
Description
Displaysstatisticsforallclasses,asingleclass,orallclasseswithnon-zerostatisticsintheactiveCoPP
policy.
| Parameter     |     |     |     |     | Description                                   |     |
| ------------- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --------------------------------------------- | --- |
| <CLASS>       |     |     |     |     | Specifiestheclassforwhichtodisplaystatistics. |     |
| default-class |     |     |     |     | Displaysstatisticsforthedefaultclass.         |     |
non-zero Displaysstatisticsforallclasseswithnon-zerostatistics.
Usage
Ifasingleclassisspecified,thepriorityandratethathasbeenprogrammedinhardwareforthatclass
willbeshown.
Examples
ApplyingthedefaultCoPPpolicyanddisplayingstatisticsforallclassesintheactivelyappliedpolicy:
Theratedisplayedistheactualrateinhardware.
ControlPlanePolicing(CoPP)|19

| switch# |     | config | terminal |     |     |     |     |     |
| ------- | --- | ------ | -------- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
switch(config)#
|                 |     |      | apply       | copp-policy |            | default |     |     |
| --------------- | --- | ---- | ----------- | ----------- | ---------- | ------- | --- | --- |
| switch(config)# |     |      | exit        |             |            |         |     |     |
| switch#         |     | show | copp-policy |             | statistics |         |     |     |
| Statistics      |     | for  | CoPP        | policy      | 'default': |         |     |     |
Totals:
|        | packets       | passed    |     | : 1000  |     |            | packets dropped | : 1500 |
| ------ | ------------- | --------- | --- | ------- | --- | ---------- | --------------- | ------ |
| Class: | default       |           |     |         |     |            |                 |        |
|        | packets       | passed    |     | : 400   |     |            | packets dropped | : 600  |
| Class: | arp-broadcast |           |     |         |     |            |                 |        |
|        | packets       | passed    |     | : 500   |     |            | packets dropped | : 800  |
|        |               | <--OUTPUT |     | OMITTED | FOR | BREVITY--> |                 |        |
Displayingstatisticsforthedefaultclassintheactivepolicy:
| switch(config)# |          |        | show    | copp-policy |            | statistics | default-class   |       |
| --------------- | -------- | ------ | ------- | ----------- | ---------- | ---------- | --------------- | ----- |
| Statistics      |          | for    | CoPP    | policy      | 'default': |            |                 |       |
| Class:          | default  |        |         |             |            |            |                 |       |
| Description:    |          |        | Default |             |            |            |                 |       |
|                 | priority |        |         |             | : 2        |            |                 |       |
|                 | rate     | (pps)  |         |             | : 4225     |            |                 |       |
|                 | packets  | passed |         | : 400       |            |            | packets dropped | : 600 |
Displayingstatisticsfortheclassarp-broadcastintheactivelyappliedpolicy:
| switch#      |               | show   | copp-policy |            | statistics | class    | arp-broadcast   |       |
| ------------ | ------------- | ------ | ----------- | ---------- | ---------- | -------- | --------------- | ----- |
| Statistics   |               | for    | CoPP        | policy     | 'default': |          |                 |       |
| Class:       | arp-broadcast |        |             |            |            |          |                 |       |
| Description: |               |        | Address     | Resolution |            | Protocol | broadcast       |       |
|              | priority      |        |             |            | : 2        |          |                 |       |
|              | rate          | (pps)  |             |            | : 1250     |          |                 |       |
|              | packets       | passed |             | : 500      |            |          | packets dropped | : 800 |
Formoreinformationonfeaturesthatusethiscommand,refertotheCoPPGuideforyourswitchmodel.
| Command        |     | History     |     |         |     |              |     |     |
| -------------- | --- | ----------- | --- | ------- | --- | ------------ | --- | --- |
| Release        |     |             |     |         |     | Modification |     |     |
| 10.07orearlier |     |             |     |         |     | --           |     |     |
| Command        |     | Information |     |         |     |              |     |     |
| Platforms      |     | Command     |     | context |     | Authority    |     |     |
Allplatforms Operator(>)orManager OperatorsorAdministratorsorlocalusergroupmemberswith
|     |     | (#) |     |     |     | executionrightsforthiscommand.Operatorscanexecutethis |     |     |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | ----------------------------------------------------- | --- | --- |
commandfromtheoperatorcontext(>)only.
| show | tech | copp |     |     |     |     |     |     |
| ---- | ---- | ---- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
AOS-CX10.15.xxxxCoPPGuide|(4100i,6000,6100Switches) 20

| show tech copp |     |     |     |
| -------------- | --- | --- | --- |
Description
DisplaystheoutputofallshowcommandssupportedbyCoPP.
Examples
Capturingthecommandoutputintoalocalfile:
| switch# show | tech copp | local-file |     |
| ------------ | --------- | ---------- | --- |
Show Tech output stored in local-file. Please use 'copy show-tech local-file' to
| copy-out     | this file. |            |     |
| ------------ | ---------- | ---------- | --- |
| switch# copy | show-tech  | local-file | ?   |
| REMOTE_URL   | URL        | of syntax  |     |
{tftp://|sftp://USER@}{IP|HOST}[:PORT][;blocksize=VAL]/FILE
| STORAGE_URL  | URL       | of syntax  | usb:/file |
| ------------ | --------- | ---------- | --------- |
| switch# copy | show-tech | local-file |           |
Formoreinformationonfeaturesthatusethiscommand,refertotheCoPPGuideforyourswitchmodel.
| Command History     |         |         |              |
| ------------------- | ------- | ------- | ------------ |
| Release             |         |         | Modification |
| 10.07orearlier      |         |         | --           |
| Command Information |         |         |              |
| Platforms           | Command | context | Authority    |
Allplatforms Administratorsorlocalusergroupmemberswithexecution
Manager(#)
rightsforthiscommand.
ControlPlanePolicing(CoPP)|21

Chapter 3

Support and Other Resources

Support and Other Resources

Accessing HPE Aruba Networking Support

HPE Aruba Networking Support Services

https://www.arubanetworks.com/support-services/

AOS-CX Switch Software Documentation
Portal

https://www.arubanetworks.com/techdocs/AOS-CX/help_
portal/Content/home.htm

HPE Aruba Networking Support Portal

https://networkingsupport.hpe.com/home

North America telephone

1-800-943-4526 (US & Canada Toll-Free Number)

+1-408-754-1200 (Primary - Toll Number)

+1-650-385-6582 (Backup - Toll Number - Use only when all other

numbers are not working)

International telephone

https://www.arubanetworks.com/support-services/contact-
support/

Be sure to collect the following information before contacting Support:

n Technical support registration number (if applicable)

n Product name, model or version, and serial number

n Operating system name and version

n Firmware version

n Error messages

n Product-specific reports and logs

n Add-on products or components

n Third-party products or components

Other useful sites

Other websites that can be used to find information:

HPE Aruba
Networking
Developer Hub

Airheads social
forums and
Knowledge Base

https://developer.arubanetworks.com/hpe-aruba-networking-aoscx/docs/about

https://community.arubanetworks.com/

AOS-CX Software

Videos on new features introduced in this release:

Technical Update

https://www.youtube.com/playlist?list=PLsYGHuNuBZcbWPEjjHuVMqP-Q_UL3CskS

AOS-CX 10.15.xxxx CoPP Guide | (4100i, 6000, 6100 Switches)

22

channelon
YouTube.
HPEAruba https://www.arubanetworks.com/techdocs/hardware/DocumentationPortal/Content/home.
| Networking | htm |     |
| ---------- | --- | --- |
Hardware
Documentation
andTranslations
Portal
| HPEAruba | https://networkingsupport.hpe.com/downloads |     |
| -------- | ------------------------------------------- | --- |
Networking
software
| Software | https://licensemanagement.hpe.com/ |     |
| -------- | ---------------------------------- | --- |
licensingand
FeaturePacks
End-of-Life https://www.arubanetworks.com/support-services/end-of-life/
information
| Accessing | Updates |     |
| --------- | ------- | --- |
YoucanaccessupdatesfromtheHPEArubaNetworkingSupportPortalat
https://networkingsupport.hpe.com.
Somesoftwareproductsprovideamechanismforaccessingsoftwareupdatesthroughtheproduct
interface.Reviewyourproductdocumentationtoidentifytherecommendedsoftwareupdatemethod.
TosubscribetoeNewslettersandalerts:
https://networkingsupport.hpe./notifications/subscriptions(requiresanactiveHPEArubaNetworking
SupportPortalaccounttomanagesubscriptions).SecuritynoticesareviewablewithoutanHPEAruba
NetworkingSupportPortalaccount.
| Warranty | Information |     |
| -------- | ----------- | --- |
Toviewwarrantyinformationforyourproduct,gotohttps://www.arubanetworks.com/support-
services/product-warranties/.
| Regulatory | Information |     |
| ---------- | ----------- | --- |
Toviewtheregulatoryinformationforyourproduct,viewtheSafetyandComplianceInformationfor
Server,Storage,Power,Networking,andRackProducts,availableathttps://www.hpe.com/support/Safety-
Compliance-EnterpriseProducts
| Additional | regulatory | information |
| ---------- | ---------- | ----------- |
HPEArubaNetworkingiscommittedtoprovidingourcustomerswithinformationaboutthechemical
substancesinourproductsasneededtocomplywithlegalrequirements,environmentaldata(company
programs,productrecycling,energyefficiency),andsafetyinformationandcompliancedata,(RoHSand
WEEE).Formoreinformation,seehttps://www.arubanetworks.com/company/about-us/environmental-
citizenship/.
| Documentation |     | Feedback |
| ------------- | --- | -------- |
SupportandOtherResources|23

HPE Aruba Networking is committed to providing documentation that meets your needs. To help us
improve the documentation, send any errors, suggestions, or comments to Documentation Feedback
(docsfeedback-switching@hpe.com). When submitting your feedback, include the document title, part
number, edition, and publication date located on the front cover of the document. For online help
content, include the product name, product version, help edition, and publication date located on the
legal notices page.

AOS-CX 10.15.xxxx CoPP Guide | (4100i, 6000, 6100 Switches)

24